After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor alice! She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, “which way? Which way?”, holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way.
Poor alice! She knows such a very little! Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, “and in that case i can go back by railway,” she said to herself.
Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “i am older than you, and must know better;” and this alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said. “what else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turning to alice. “only a thimble,” said alice sadly.
And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘miss alice! “what a number of cucumber-frames there must be!” thought alice. So bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said alice to herself.
The other side of what?” thought alice to herself. “what can all that green stuff be?” said alice. “i’m not a serpent!” said alice indignantly.
“but what am i to do?” said alice. Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, “just like a star-fish,” thought alice. “if you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,” said alice, seriously, “i’ll have nothing more to do with you.
“i don’t quite understand you,” she said, as politely as she could. “then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it,” said alice angrily. “come, we shall have some fun now!” thought alice.
“you’d better not talk!” said five. When the procession came opposite to alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the queen said severely “who is this?” I said ‘what for?’”
“i make you a present of everything i’ve said as yet.” So they went up to the mock turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing. Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, “thank you, sir, for your interesting story,” but she could not help thinking there must be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.
“that generally takes some time,” interrupted the gryphon. “—you advance twice—”  “each with a lobster as a partner!” cried the gryphon. “of course,” the mock turtle said: “advance twice, set to partners—”  “—change lobsters, and retire in same order,” continued the gryphon.
“fourteenth of march, i think it was,” he said. Alice watched the white rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like, “—for they haven’t got much evidence yet,” she said to herself. “herald, read the accusation!” said the king.
“the trial cannot proceed,” said the king in a very grave voice, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—all,” he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at alice as he said so. “do i look like it?” he said. “what do you know about this business?” the king said to alice.
