The personal history and experience of david copperfield the younger
Betsey, looking round the room, slowly and inquiringly, began on the other side, and carried her eyes on, like a saracen’s head in a dutch clock, until they reached my mother. ‘yes,’ said my mother, faintly. ‘do you mean the house, ma’am?’ asked my mother. ‘the name was mr. copperfield’s choice,’ returned my mother. ‘there have not been any since we have lived here,’ said my mother.
Looking back, as i was saying, into the blank of my infancy, the first objects i can remember as standing out by themselves from a confusion of things, are my mother and peggotty. In time my eyes gradually shut up; and, from seeming to hear the clergyman singing a drowsy song in the heat, i hear nothing, until i fall off the seat with a crash, and am taken out, more dead than alive, by peggotty. ‘lord, master davy,’ replied peggotty. ‘but were you ever married, peggotty?’ ‘me handsome, davy!’ said peggotty.
‘glad to see you, sir,’ said mr. peggotty. ‘how’s your ma, sir?’ said mr. peggotty. ‘i’m much obleeged to her, i’m sure,’ said mr. peggotty. ‘who gave him that name, then?’ said i, putting question number two of the catechism to mr. peggotty. ‘why, sir, his father giv it him,’ said mr. peggotty.
‘go you below, my love,’ said mr. murdstone. I had never, at that time, seen such a metallic lady altogether as miss murdstone was. ‘clara!’ said mr. murdstone sternly. ‘my own house?’ repeated mr. murdstone. ‘jane murdstone,’ thundered mr. murdstone.
‘there,’ i said. ‘near london,’ i said. ‘with peggotty?’  ‘ah!’ he said. I was thinking this, and wondering what would ultimately become of my box, which mr. barkis had put down on the yard-pavement by the pole (he having driven up the yard to turn his cart), and also what would ultimately become of me, when a lady looked out of a bow-window where some fowls and joints of meat were hanging up, and said: ‘yes, ma’am,’ i said.
‘so!’ said mr. creakle. ‘now,’ said mr. creakle. Hey?’ repeated mr. creakle. ‘i am a determined character,’ said mr. creakle. ‘no,’ said mr. creakle.
Steerforth said. I said. ‘a what?--where is he?’ said steerforth. Here somebody cried out, ‘shame, j. steerforth! ‘he did,’ said steerforth.
‘says you, “peggotty! ‘oh, drat the man!’ cried peggotty. I don’t know,’ said peggotty. ‘never!’ cried peggotty. My mother took her hand, and said:  ‘don’t leave me, peggotty.
‘he is in his mother’s arms,’ said he. I said: ‘yes.’ She never told her husband what she had told me--she was afraid of saying it to anybody else--till one night, a little more than a week before it happened, when she said to him: Here peggotty stopped, and softly beat upon my hand a little while. ‘rat--tat-tat, rat--tat-tat, rat--tat-tat.’
He is sorry at this moment, sitting by the fireside with miss murdstone; but if i was to go in, peggotty, he would be something besides.’ ‘what would he be?’ said peggotty. ‘yes, peggotty?’ I shall see you sometimes, my dear old peggotty, there. ‘why--i suppose you would like me as much then, peggotty, as you do now?’
‘at about eight,’ said mr. micawber. Blood cannot be obtained from a stone, neither can anything on account be obtained at present (not to mention law expenses) from mr. micawber.’ Poor mrs. micawber! Receiving no answer to these taunts, he would mount in his wrath to the words ‘swindlers’ and ‘robbers’; and these being ineffectual too, would sometimes go to the extremity of crossing the street, and roaring up at the windows of the second floor, where he knew mr. micawber was. And mrs. micawber was just the same.
‘of great talent,’ repeated mrs. micawber. ‘exactly,’ returned mrs. micawber. The events of the day, in combination with the twins, if not with the flip, had made mrs. micawber hysterical, and she shed tears as she replied:  ‘i never will desert mr. micawber. But i never will desert mr. micawber. I do not deny that he has kept me in the dark as to his resources and his liabilities both,’ she went on, looking at the wall; ‘but i never will desert mr. micawber!’
Mr. dolloby--dolloby was the name over the shop door, at least--took the waistcoat, stood his pipe on its head, against the door-post, went into the shop, followed by me, snuffed the two candles with his fingers, spread the waistcoat on the counter, and looked at it there, held it up against the light, and looked at it there, and ultimately said: ‘i am going to dover,’ i said. ‘i come from london,’ i said. ‘are you a prig?’  ‘n-no,’ i said. ‘trotwood,’ said he.
‘i have written to him,’ said my aunt. ‘to your father-in-law,’ said my aunt. ‘does he know where i am, aunt?’ ‘i don’t know,’ said my aunt. ‘what do you think of him?’ said my aunt.
While i advanced in friendship and intimacy with mr. dick, i did not go backward in the favour of his staunch friend, my aunt. Said my aunt. ‘good,’ said my aunt. Being already no stranger to the general rapidity of my aunt’s evolutions, i was not surprised by the suddenness of the proposal, and said: ‘yes.’  ‘good,’ said my aunt again. ‘is it a large school, aunt?’
‘no,’ returned the doctor. Her name was mrs. markleham; but our boys used to call her the old soldier, on account of her generalship, and the skill with which she marshalled great forces of relations against the doctor. ‘i thank you, ma’am,’ replied the doctor. It is well for you, john, that your cousin is the wife of the doctor. ‘nonsense, nonsense,’ said the doctor.
It was mr. micawber! I cannot say--i really cannot say--that i was glad to see mr. micawber there; but i was glad to see him too, and shook hands with him, heartily, inquiring how mrs. micawber was. ‘you are very good,’ said mr. micawber. I said, to get mr. micawber away. ‘just so,’ said mrs. micawber.
Miss I worship the eldest miss larkins. Perhaps the eldest miss larkins may be about thirty. I seem, then, to be worthier of the eldest miss larkins. To say ‘how do you do, mr. larkins?
‘pleasantly, i hope, aunt?’ said i. ‘yes,’ she said. Did you ever breed any suffolk punches yourself, sir?’  ‘n-no,’ i said, ‘not exactly.’ He laughed as he ran his hand through the clustering curls of his hair, and said gaily: I went to canterbury first, that i might take leave of agnes and mr. wickfield (my old room in whose house i had not yet relinquished), and also of the good doctor.
‘then i think i shall be a favourite,’ said i.  ‘good!’ said steerforth. ‘i take a degree!’ cried steerforth. ‘really what?’ said mrs. steerforth. ‘and you will be right,’ said mrs. steerforth. ‘yes, i am convinced of it,’ said mrs. steerforth.
‘thank you,’ said i, ‘very well indeed. ‘when do you propose to introduce me there, daisy?’ he said. Said i, involuntarily. --the rookery,’ said i. ‘of course,’ he said.
‘i have been taking leave of my usual walk,’ said i. Said i, exultingly. ‘the same as ever?’ said i. ‘i did not,’ said i. ‘there’s charley pyegrave, the duke’s son,’ she said.
While we were at breakfast, a letter was delivered to me from my aunt. ‘it’s from my aunt.’ ‘don’t you think the fowl may have come out of the country, aunt?’ ‘certainly not,’ returned my aunt. ‘come!’ said my aunt.
I said, certainly we would have him. As to a fish-kittle, mrs. crupp said, well! ‘agnes!’ i said. ‘no, no!’ said steerforth. Next mrs.
I could scarcely lay claim to the name: i was so disturbed by the conviction that the letter came from agnes. After many attempts, i wrote, ‘my dear agnes. ‘sit down,’ said agnes, cheerfully. ‘ah, agnes!’ My dear agnes!
At the coach window, as at the dinner-party, he hovered about us without a moment’s intermission, like a great vulture: gorging himself on every syllable that i said to agnes, or agnes said to me. ‘you--are--out early, miss spenlow,’ said i. ‘you have just come home from paris,’ said i.  ‘yes,’ said she. The speaker was not dora. I could only sit down before my fire, biting the key of my carpet-bag, and think of the captivating, girlish, bright-eyed lovely dora.
‘is he at home?’ said i. ‘no,’ said he. ‘you were brought up by an uncle, then?’ said i. ‘do you really mean that?’ said i. ‘i am quite certain of it,’ said i.
‘he means, solicited by him, mr. copperfield,’ said mrs. micawber, archly. I, who never have deserted you; who never will desert you, micawber!’ In short, the banquet was such a failure that i should have been quite unhappy--about the failure, i mean, for i was always unhappy about dora--if i had not been relieved by the great good humour of my company, and by a bright suggestion from mr. micawber. ‘i will not conceal from you, my dear mr. copperfield,’ said mrs. micawber, ‘that i have long felt the brewing business to be particularly adapted to mr. micawber. Really, my dear,’ interposed mr. micawber.
‘you want to know what, rosa?’ returned mrs. steerforth. ‘it’s as good a phrase as another,’ said steerforth. ‘i should say yes,’ said steerforth. ‘much!’ said steerforth. ‘oh, heaven knows,’ said steerforth.
I said, ‘not at all.’ ‘i am sure she has!’ said i. I listened attentively to the good old fellow, and acquiesced, with all my heart, in what he said. ‘not at all, i am certain,’ said i.  ‘not at all! ‘now, i’m a going upstairs to tell your aunt as mas’r davy’s here, and that’ll cheer her up a bit,’ he said.
‘cheer up, my pritty mawther!’ said mr. peggotty. ‘theer!’ said mr. peggotty, cheerily. ‘not azackly,’ observed peggotty. ‘wheer’s em’ly?’ said mr. peggotty. ‘there’s a man suspected,’ said mr. peggotty.
Mr. peggotty stopping for us to join him: we did so, and said no more. ‘yes, it’s always so!’ she said. I said indignantly. We went back to the little lodging over the chandler’s shop, and there i found an opportunity of repeating to peggotty what he had said to me. ‘will you desert the old boat, mr. peggotty?’
The more i pitied myself, or pitied others, the more i sought for consolation in the image of dora. If i may so express it, i was steeped in dora. The first thing i did, on my own account, when i came back, was to take a night-walk to norwood, and, like the subject of a venerable riddle of my childhood, to go ‘round and round the house, without ever touching the house’, thinking about dora. At six in the morning, i was in covent garden market, buying a bouquet for dora. She was the bosom friend of dora.
Of steerforth i said nothing. ‘dear me!’ said i. I said beforehand, certainly not. ‘yes, yes, i know,’ said traddles, ‘of course. ‘hah!’ said traddles, thoughtfully.
That then he had said, ‘oh, indeed!’ ‘trot, my dear,’ said my aunt, when she saw me making preparations for compounding her usual night-draught, ‘no!’  ‘nothing, aunt?’ ‘but there is wine here, aunt. ‘keep that, in case of sickness,’ said my aunt. ‘i should think so myself, aunt, i am sure,’ said i.  ‘well, then, why don’t you think so?’ said my aunt.
My family may consider it banishment, if they please; but i am a wife and mother, and i never will desert mr. micawber.’ I read the service over with a flat-candle on the previous night, and the conclusion i derived from it was, that i never could desert mr. micawber. ‘--is,’ said traddles, ‘that this branch of the law, even if mr. micawber were a regular solicitor--’  ‘exactly so,’ returned mrs. micawber. ‘thank you,’ said mrs. micawber. ‘yes,’ said mr. micawber.
I even entertained some idea of putting myself on a vegetable diet, vaguely conceiving that, in becoming a graminivorous animal, i should sacrifice to dora. My pretty, little, startled dora! Pouted dora. ‘oh, yes!’ cried dora. To dora!
Said mr. spenlow. Therefore i watched miss spenlow closely.’ ‘nor from me?’ said mr. spenlow. ‘very well!’ said mr. spenlow. ‘i don’t allude to the matter in that light,’ said mr. spenlow.
Hem!’ ‘i am glad of that, at least,’ said i. ‘like myself, in the too high opinion you have of me, agnes, i am afraid,’ said i. ‘god bless her, she is as easily scared as a bird,’ said i. ‘well?’ said i.  ‘how fast you walk!’ said he. ‘do you set a watch upon miss wickfield, and make her home no home, because of me?’ said i.  ‘oh!
‘again?’ said i. ‘is that another letter in your hand?’ said i. By little and little, when i come to a new village or that, among the poor people, i found they know’d about me. I know’d it well! There ain’t a child in yarmouth that doen’t know him.’
‘won’t be smoothed down?’ said i. ‘at any rate, they are all reconciled to it now, i hope?’ said i. They wouldn’t add up, she said. ‘no,’ said traddles. ‘you did at last?’ said i.  ‘well, the reverend horace did,’ said traddles.
‘of whom are you jealous, now?’ said i. ‘i don’t understand you,’ said i. ‘suppose we had never been born!’ said i, gaily. What we have said tonight is never to be said more. ‘oh dear, i am not referring to the doctor!
I am going to be married to dora! Dora is not there. Says dora. ‘a little earlier. Another happy evening, quite as unreal as all the rest of it, and i steal into the usual room before going away.
It seemed such an extraordinary thing to have dora always there. I doubt whether two young birds could have known less about keeping house, than i and my pretty dora did. I couldn’t, doady!’ said dora. ‘n-n-no!’ replied dora, faintly. Returned dora.
‘yes!’ she said. I was thinking of all that had been said. It was some time now, since i had left the doctor. ‘surely, surely,’ said the doctor. You know what a learned man, what a great man, the doctor is.
‘if you please,’ said she. ‘yes,’ said i. ‘i think the better of her for it,’ said i, indignantly. ‘my niece, em’ly, is alive, sir!’ he said, steadfastly. He looked almost like a man inspired, as he said it.
She said faintly, ‘yes.’ ‘the cause of her flight is too well understood,’ i said. She looked at him hastily, and for the first time, as if she were doubtful of what he had said. ‘there may be work to be got,’ she said. ‘then i can’t go,’ said he.
‘you have been silent for a long time, and now you are going to be cross!’ said dora. ‘i think i don’t want to know,’ said dora. ‘you did,’ returned dora. ‘to the page,’ sobbed dora. ‘you always said he was a story-teller,’ sobbed dora.
I have received a very singular letter, traddles, from mr. micawber.’ And i have received one from mrs. micawber!’ In any case, he will have the benevolence to consider this communication strictly private, and on no account whatever to be alluded to, however distantly, in the presence of mr. micawber. He was now alluding to mrs. micawber’s letter, and we were standing side by side comparing the two; ‘it will be a charity to write to her, at all events, and tell her that we will not fail to see mr. micawber.’ Although we appeared at the stipulated place a quarter of an hour before the time, we found mr. micawber already there.
‘she love!’ she said. For it was emily’s! ‘oh, for heaven’s sake, spare me!’ exclaimed emily. ‘oh, have some mercy on me!’ cried emily. ‘oh, not that!’ cried emily.
‘poor ham!’ said i. ‘not along of my being heer, ma’am, i hope?’ said mr. peggotty. My aunt nodded confirmation of this hope, and imparted great satisfaction to mr. peggotty. I found them in the neat kitchen, accompanied by mrs. gummidge, who had been fetched from the old boat by mr. peggotty himself. The door of the boat-house stood open when i approached; and, on entering, i found it emptied of all its furniture, saving one of the old lockers, on which mrs. gummidge, with a basket on her knee, was seated, looking at mr. peggotty.
Mr. dick, disturbed by these formidable appearances, but feeling it necessary to imitate them, pulled his hat, with both hands, as firmly over his ears as he possibly could; and instantly took it off again, to welcome mr. micawber. As it appeared to me that i was expected to speak, i said aloud:  ‘how do you do, mr. micawber?’ I was prevented from disclaiming the compliment (if i should have done so, in any case), by the entrance of agnes, now ushered in by mr. micawber. ‘micawber! ‘yes!’ replied the immovable mr. micawber.
‘doady!’  ‘my dear dora!’ ‘except to get well again, dora.’ ‘don’t say so, dora! So you must make haste to get well, my dear.’ ‘i will write to her, my dear.’
‘but even that is not all,’ said i. ‘dick is a very remarkable man,’ exclaimed my aunt; ‘and i always said he was. He said so to me, plainly. ‘you are quite right,’ she said. ‘at nine,’ said she.
I ran the same way, outstripping a good many, and soon came facing the wild sea. It still increased, until our horses could scarcely face the wind. The sand, the sea-weed, and the flakes of foam, were driving by; and i was obliged to call for assistance before i could shut the gate again, and make it fast against the wind. There was a bell on board; and as the ship rolled and dashed, like a desperate creature driven mad, now showing us the whole sweep of her deck, as she turned on her beam-ends towards the shore, now nothing but her keel, as she sprung wildly over and turned towards the sea, the bell rang; and its sound, the knell of those unhappy men, was borne towards us on the wind. Against such a sight, and against such determination as that of the calmly desperate man who was already accustomed to lead half the people present, i might as hopefully have entreated the wind.
‘hush!’ said i. ‘i am unhappily a widower,’ said i. Her mistress was up, she said, and miss dartle was with her. At her chair, as usual, was rosa dartle. ‘yes, something has happened, that i have to break to mrs. steerforth.
Miss micawber ‘and when does the ship sail, mr. micawber?’ At length the same boy reappeared, and presented me with a note written in pencil, and headed, in a legal manner, ‘heep v. micawber’. ‘please heaven, there will be many such opportunities,’ said mr. micawber. Do not frown, micawber!
Other packets had missed me, and i had received none for a long time. I lived in that valley, and its neighbourhood, all the time. Listlessness to everything, but brooding sorrow, was the night that fell on my undisciplined heart. If my grief were selfish, i did not know it to be so. I mourned for him who might have won the love and admiration of thousands, as he had won mine long ago.
‘not above three years,’ said i. I said. ‘and so am i,’ said i. ‘forgot?’ said i. ‘upon my word,’ rejoined traddles, greatly delighted, ‘if you had seen them running away, and running back again, after you had knocked, to pick up the combs they had dropped out of their hair, and going on in the maddest manner, you wouldn’t have said so.
‘agnes! ‘you have much to do, dear agnes?’ Dear agnes!’ ‘then i have no such intention, agnes.’ ‘what i am, you have made me, agnes.
That i truly devoted myself to it with my strongest earnestness, and bestowed upon it every energy of my soul, i have already said. ‘on the commission he is, at any rate,’ said i. ‘i have no doubt, twenty eight,’ returned the questioner, ‘that the gentleman you refer to feels very strongly--as we all must--what you have so properly said. ‘not like a lady’s hand, is it?’ said traddles. ‘what a thoroughly good and charming wife she is, my dear traddles!’
I had seen agnes frequently. ‘do you know anything more,’ said i, standing composedly before her--she had patted me on the shoulder, and sat down in my chair--‘of that attachment of agnes?’ ‘you have a secret,’ said i. ‘let me share it, agnes.’ ‘agnes! For whom do i live now, agnes, if it is not for you!’
‘let him come in here!’ said i. ‘mas’r davy,’ said he. ‘time has changed me more than it has changed you since then,’ said i. ‘would you believe it!’ he said. ‘but i must say this, for the good creetur,’ he resumed, wiping his face, when we were quite exhausted; ‘she has been all she said she’d be to us, and more.
Working at his chambers in the temple, with a busy aspect, and his hair (where he is not bald) made more rebellious than ever by the constant friction of his lawyer’s-wig, i come, in a later time, upon my dear old traddles. I am going to have a family dinner with traddles. ‘except the beauty,’ says traddles. I hope time will be good to you.’ Rosa bends over her, and calls to her, ‘mr. copperfield.’
