The personal history and experience of david copperfield the younger
Betsey, looking round the room, slowly and inquiringly, began on the other side, and carried her eyes on, like a saracen’s head in a dutch clock, until they reached my mother. ‘yes,’ said my mother, faintly. ‘do you mean the house, ma’am?’ asked my mother.
Looking back, as i was saying, into the blank of my infancy, the first objects i can remember as standing out by themselves from a confusion of things, are my mother and peggotty. In time my eyes gradually shut up; and, from seeming to hear the clergyman singing a drowsy song in the heat, i hear nothing, until i fall off the seat with a crash, and am taken out, more dead than alive, by peggotty. ‘lord, master davy,’ replied peggotty.
‘glad to see you, sir,’ said mr. peggotty. ‘how’s your ma, sir?’ said mr. peggotty. ‘i’m much obleeged to her, i’m sure,’ said mr. peggotty.
‘go you below, my love,’ said mr. murdstone. I had never, at that time, seen such a metallic lady altogether as miss murdstone was. ‘clara!’ said mr. murdstone sternly.
‘there,’ i said. ‘near london,’ i said. ‘with peggotty?’  ‘ah!’ he said.
‘so!’ said mr. creakle. ‘now,’ said mr. creakle. Hey?’ repeated mr. creakle.
Steerforth said. I said. ‘a what?--where is he?’ said steerforth.
‘says you, “peggotty! ‘oh, drat the man!’ cried peggotty. I don’t know,’ said peggotty.
‘he is in his mother’s arms,’ said he. I said: ‘yes.’ She never told her husband what she had told me--she was afraid of saying it to anybody else--till one night, a little more than a week before it happened, when she said to him:
He is sorry at this moment, sitting by the fireside with miss murdstone; but if i was to go in, peggotty, he would be something besides.’ ‘what would he be?’ said peggotty. ‘yes, peggotty?’
‘at about eight,’ said mr. micawber. Blood cannot be obtained from a stone, neither can anything on account be obtained at present (not to mention law expenses) from mr. micawber.’ Poor mrs. micawber!
‘of great talent,’ repeated mrs. micawber. ‘exactly,’ returned mrs. micawber. The events of the day, in combination with the twins, if not with the flip, had made mrs. micawber hysterical, and she shed tears as she replied:  ‘i never will desert mr. micawber.
Mr. dolloby--dolloby was the name over the shop door, at least--took the waistcoat, stood his pipe on its head, against the door-post, went into the shop, followed by me, snuffed the two candles with his fingers, spread the waistcoat on the counter, and looked at it there, held it up against the light, and looked at it there, and ultimately said: ‘i am going to dover,’ i said. ‘i come from london,’ i said.
‘i have written to him,’ said my aunt. ‘to your father-in-law,’ said my aunt. ‘does he know where i am, aunt?’
While i advanced in friendship and intimacy with mr. dick, i did not go backward in the favour of his staunch friend, my aunt. Said my aunt. ‘good,’ said my aunt.
‘no,’ returned the doctor. Her name was mrs. markleham; but our boys used to call her the old soldier, on account of her generalship, and the skill with which she marshalled great forces of relations against the doctor. ‘i thank you, ma’am,’ replied the doctor.
It was mr. micawber! I cannot say--i really cannot say--that i was glad to see mr. micawber there; but i was glad to see him too, and shook hands with him, heartily, inquiring how mrs. micawber was. ‘you are very good,’ said mr. micawber.
Miss I worship the eldest miss larkins. Perhaps the eldest miss larkins may be about thirty.
‘pleasantly, i hope, aunt?’ said i. ‘yes,’ she said. Did you ever breed any suffolk punches yourself, sir?’  ‘n-no,’ i said, ‘not exactly.’
‘then i think i shall be a favourite,’ said i.  ‘good!’ said steerforth. ‘i take a degree!’ cried steerforth. ‘really what?’ said mrs. steerforth.
‘thank you,’ said i, ‘very well indeed. ‘when do you propose to introduce me there, daisy?’ he said. Said i, involuntarily.
‘i have been taking leave of my usual walk,’ said i. Said i, exultingly. ‘the same as ever?’ said i.
While we were at breakfast, a letter was delivered to me from my aunt. ‘it’s from my aunt.’ ‘don’t you think the fowl may have come out of the country, aunt?’
I said, certainly we would have him. As to a fish-kittle, mrs. crupp said, well! ‘agnes!’ i said.
I could scarcely lay claim to the name: i was so disturbed by the conviction that the letter came from agnes. After many attempts, i wrote, ‘my dear agnes. ‘sit down,’ said agnes, cheerfully.
At the coach window, as at the dinner-party, he hovered about us without a moment’s intermission, like a great vulture: gorging himself on every syllable that i said to agnes, or agnes said to me. ‘you--are--out early, miss spenlow,’ said i. ‘you have just come home from paris,’ said i.  ‘yes,’ said she.
‘is he at home?’ said i. ‘no,’ said he. ‘you were brought up by an uncle, then?’ said i.
‘he means, solicited by him, mr. copperfield,’ said mrs. micawber, archly. I, who never have deserted you; who never will desert you, micawber!’ In short, the banquet was such a failure that i should have been quite unhappy--about the failure, i mean, for i was always unhappy about dora--if i had not been relieved by the great good humour of my company, and by a bright suggestion from mr. micawber.
‘you want to know what, rosa?’ returned mrs. steerforth. ‘it’s as good a phrase as another,’ said steerforth. ‘i should say yes,’ said steerforth.
I said, ‘not at all.’ ‘i am sure she has!’ said i. I listened attentively to the good old fellow, and acquiesced, with all my heart, in what he said.
‘cheer up, my pritty mawther!’ said mr. peggotty. ‘theer!’ said mr. peggotty, cheerily. ‘not azackly,’ observed peggotty.
Mr. peggotty stopping for us to join him: we did so, and said no more. ‘yes, it’s always so!’ she said. I said indignantly.
The more i pitied myself, or pitied others, the more i sought for consolation in the image of dora. If i may so express it, i was steeped in dora. The first thing i did, on my own account, when i came back, was to take a night-walk to norwood, and, like the subject of a venerable riddle of my childhood, to go ‘round and round the house, without ever touching the house’, thinking about dora.
Of steerforth i said nothing. ‘dear me!’ said i. I said beforehand, certainly not.
That then he had said, ‘oh, indeed!’ ‘trot, my dear,’ said my aunt, when she saw me making preparations for compounding her usual night-draught, ‘no!’  ‘nothing, aunt?’ ‘but there is wine here, aunt.
My family may consider it banishment, if they please; but i am a wife and mother, and i never will desert mr. micawber.’ I read the service over with a flat-candle on the previous night, and the conclusion i derived from it was, that i never could desert mr. micawber. ‘--is,’ said traddles, ‘that this branch of the law, even if mr. micawber were a regular solicitor--’  ‘exactly so,’ returned mrs. micawber.
I even entertained some idea of putting myself on a vegetable diet, vaguely conceiving that, in becoming a graminivorous animal, i should sacrifice to dora. My pretty, little, startled dora! Pouted dora.
Said mr. spenlow. Therefore i watched miss spenlow closely.’ ‘nor from me?’ said mr. spenlow.
Hem!’ ‘i am glad of that, at least,’ said i. ‘like myself, in the too high opinion you have of me, agnes, i am afraid,’ said i. ‘god bless her, she is as easily scared as a bird,’ said i.
‘again?’ said i. ‘is that another letter in your hand?’ said i. By little and little, when i come to a new village or that, among the poor people, i found they know’d about me.
‘won’t be smoothed down?’ said i. ‘at any rate, they are all reconciled to it now, i hope?’ said i. They wouldn’t add up, she said.
‘of whom are you jealous, now?’ said i. ‘i don’t understand you,’ said i. ‘suppose we had never been born!’ said i, gaily.
I am going to be married to dora! Dora is not there. Says dora.
It seemed such an extraordinary thing to have dora always there. I doubt whether two young birds could have known less about keeping house, than i and my pretty dora did. I couldn’t, doady!’ said dora.
‘yes!’ she said. I was thinking of all that had been said. It was some time now, since i had left the doctor.
‘if you please,’ said she. ‘yes,’ said i. ‘i think the better of her for it,’ said i, indignantly.
She said faintly, ‘yes.’ ‘the cause of her flight is too well understood,’ i said. She looked at him hastily, and for the first time, as if she were doubtful of what he had said.
‘you have been silent for a long time, and now you are going to be cross!’ said dora. ‘i think i don’t want to know,’ said dora. ‘you did,’ returned dora.
I have received a very singular letter, traddles, from mr. micawber.’ And i have received one from mrs. micawber!’ In any case, he will have the benevolence to consider this communication strictly private, and on no account whatever to be alluded to, however distantly, in the presence of mr. micawber.
‘she love!’ she said. For it was emily’s! ‘oh, for heaven’s sake, spare me!’ exclaimed emily.
‘poor ham!’ said i. ‘not along of my being heer, ma’am, i hope?’ said mr. peggotty. My aunt nodded confirmation of this hope, and imparted great satisfaction to mr. peggotty.
Mr. dick, disturbed by these formidable appearances, but feeling it necessary to imitate them, pulled his hat, with both hands, as firmly over his ears as he possibly could; and instantly took it off again, to welcome mr. micawber. As it appeared to me that i was expected to speak, i said aloud:  ‘how do you do, mr. micawber?’ I was prevented from disclaiming the compliment (if i should have done so, in any case), by the entrance of agnes, now ushered in by mr. micawber.
‘doady!’  ‘my dear dora!’ ‘except to get well again, dora.’ ‘don’t say so, dora!
‘but even that is not all,’ said i. ‘dick is a very remarkable man,’ exclaimed my aunt; ‘and i always said he was. He said so to me, plainly.
I ran the same way, outstripping a good many, and soon came facing the wild sea. It still increased, until our horses could scarcely face the wind. The sand, the sea-weed, and the flakes of foam, were driving by; and i was obliged to call for assistance before i could shut the gate again, and make it fast against the wind.
‘hush!’ said i. ‘i am unhappily a widower,’ said i. Her mistress was up, she said, and miss dartle was with her.
Miss micawber ‘and when does the ship sail, mr. micawber?’ At length the same boy reappeared, and presented me with a note written in pencil, and headed, in a legal manner, ‘heep v. micawber’.
Other packets had missed me, and i had received none for a long time. I lived in that valley, and its neighbourhood, all the time. Listlessness to everything, but brooding sorrow, was the night that fell on my undisciplined heart.
‘not above three years,’ said i. I said. ‘and so am i,’ said i.
‘agnes! ‘you have much to do, dear agnes?’ Dear agnes!’
That i truly devoted myself to it with my strongest earnestness, and bestowed upon it every energy of my soul, i have already said. ‘on the commission he is, at any rate,’ said i. ‘i have no doubt, twenty eight,’ returned the questioner, ‘that the gentleman you refer to feels very strongly--as we all must--what you have so properly said.
I had seen agnes frequently. ‘do you know anything more,’ said i, standing composedly before her--she had patted me on the shoulder, and sat down in my chair--‘of that attachment of agnes?’ ‘you have a secret,’ said i. ‘let me share it, agnes.’
‘let him come in here!’ said i. ‘mas’r davy,’ said he. ‘time has changed me more than it has changed you since then,’ said i.
Working at his chambers in the temple, with a busy aspect, and his hair (where he is not bald) made more rebellious than ever by the constant friction of his lawyer’s-wig, i come, in a later time, upon my dear old traddles. I am going to have a family dinner with traddles. ‘except the beauty,’ says traddles.
