“tell us your name!” said the man. “show us where you live,” said the man. “now lookee here!” said the man.
“has she been gone long, joe?” And it was made the more difficult by the unconscious joe. “hark!” said i, when i had done my stirring, and was taking a final warm in the chimney corner before being sent up to bed; “was that great guns, joe?”
He instantly jumped up, and it was not the same man, but another man! “it’s the young man!” “the young man.
“ah! well!” observed mrs. joe. “perhaps if i warn’t a blacksmith’s wife, and (what’s the same thing) a slave with her apron never off, _i_ should have been to hear the carols,” said mrs. joe. Mrs.
“ay!” returned the sergeant, “two. Hob and nob,” returned the sergeant. “lookee here!” said my convict to the sergeant.
He must have had a tiresome journey of it, for mr. wopsle, being knocked up, was in such a very bad temper that if the church had been thrown open, he would probably have excommunicated the whole expedition, beginning with joe and myself. That, if joe knew it, i never afterwards could see him glance, however casually, at yesterday’s meat or pudding when it came on to-day’s table, without thinking that he was debating whether i had been in the pantry. In his lay capacity, he persisted in sitting down in the damp to such an insane extent, that when his coat was taken off to be dried at the kitchen fire, the circumstantial evidence on his trousers would have hanged him, if it had been a capital offence.
One night i was sitting in the chimney corner with my slate, expending great efforts on the production of a letter to joe. Here’s a j and a o, pip, and a j-o, joe.” “how do you spell gargery, joe?”
“oh!” she said. “yes,” she replied; “but it meant more than it said. “you do,” said she.
Not only that, but i felt convinced that miss havisham too would not be understood; and although she was perfectly incomprehensible to me, i entertained an impression that there would be something coarse and treacherous in my dragging her as she really was (to say nothing of miss estella) before the contemplation of mrs. joe. “can this be possible, uncle?” asked mrs. joe. “did you ever see her in it, uncle?” asked mrs. joe.
“yes. i said it, you know,” said joe. “that’s it,” said joe. “most marshes is solitary,” said joe.
“now?” said she. “because i’ll never cry for you again,” said i. Hey?” said he.
“yes, miss havisham.” “at any particular time, miss havisham?” My mind grew very uneasy on the subject of the pale young gentleman.
“oh!” said she to joe. “of ladies’ company,” said joe. “she giv’ him,” said joe, “nothing.”
Never has that curtain dropped so heavy and blank, as when my way in life lay stretched out straight before me through the newly entered road of apprenticeship to joe. For, though it includes what i proceed to add, all the merit of what i proceed to add was joe’s. Joe had sanctified it, and i had believed in it.
Whatever i acquired, i tried to impart to joe. “what for, joe? “don’t you think i might say that i did not, joe?”
Biddy looked thoughtfully at it, heard my explanation, looked thoughtfully at my sister, looked thoughtfully at joe (who was always represented on the slate by his initial letter), and ran into the forge, followed by joe and me. Further, one of those two was already retaken, and had not freed himself of his iron. When my sister found that biddy was very quick to understand her, this mysterious sign reappeared on the slate.
Imperceptibly i became conscious of a change in biddy, however. But you never turn to at it, biddy.” Biddy sat quietly sewing, shedding no more tears, and while i looked at her and thought about it all, it occurred to me that perhaps i had not been sufficiently grateful to biddy.
“here is the man,” said joe. “the answer is,” returned joe, sternly, “no.” He sat astride of the chair when he had pushed the money over, and sat swinging his purse and eyeing joe.
What are you stopping for?” said i. The united vastness and distinctness of this view so struck him, that he no longer asked if he might shake hands with me, but said he really must,—and did. He said with a tearful smile that it was a singular thing to think of now, and i said so too.
This time, i made the tour of little britain, and turned into bartholomew close; and now i became aware that other people were waiting about for mr. jaggers, as well as i. “that’s what i told you not to do,” said mr. jaggers. “yes, mr. jaggers.”
“no, thank you,” said i. I was rather confused, thinking it must be out of the london fashion, but said yes. “mr. pip?” said he.
“the idea of its being you!” said he. “the idea of its being _you_!” said i. “no,” said i.
“—that it _is_ hard,” said mrs. coiler, “to have dear mr. pocket’s time and attention diverted from dear mrs. pocket.” “how dare you tell me so?” retorted mrs. pocket. “i will not allow anybody to interfere,” said mrs. pocket.
You had a particular fancy for me, hadn’t you, old artful?” said wemmick. “is the lady anybody?” said i.  “no,” returned wemmick. I felt that this delicacy arose out of the consideration that the plan would save herbert some expense, so i went off to little britain and imparted my wish to mr. jaggers.
“that’s it!” returned wemmick. “they dread him so much?” said i.  “dread him,” said wemmick. “it’s very massive,” said i.  “massive?” repeated wemmick.
To my surprise, he seemed at once to be principally if not solely interested in drummle. “_you_ should think!” retorted drummle. “you are right,” said drummle.
“joe, how are you, joe?” “i am glad to see you, joe. “had a drop, joe?”
“or mine,” said the other, gruffly. “no,” said i, “certainly not.” But i had a reason that was an old reason now for constitutionally faltering whenever i heard the word “convict.”
I said. “ah!” said he, dryly. “burn me twice over, if i can say!” said he.
“well, herbert? “what next, i mean?” said herbert. “name of clara,” said herbert.
“oh!” said i. “yes. So i said “capitally.” I repeated—when herbert murmured in my ear, “probably wopsle.”
“bless your soul and body, no,” answered wemmick, very drily. “all right, mr. wemmick.” “i think i shall be out of this on monday, sir,” he said to wemmick.
“a carriage will have to be sent for, estella. Yet the room was all in all to me, estella being in it. I asked estella.
Now, concerning the influence of my position on others, i was in no such difficulty, and so i perceived—though dimly enough perhaps—that it was not beneficial to anybody, and, above all, that it was not beneficial to herbert. When we had written a little while, i would ask herbert how he got on? He had nothing else to do, poor fellow, except at a certain hour of every afternoon to “go to lloyd’s”—in observance of a ceremony of seeing his principal, i think.
“do you, mr. pip?” said biddy. “how are you going to live, biddy? Except in my bad side of human nature,” murmured biddy.
“what is it?” said he. “i don’t understand you,” said i. “now, i have asked _you_ a question, my friend,” said mr. jaggers.
I inferred from the methodical nature of miss skiffins’s arrangements that she made tea there every sunday night; and i rather suspected that a classic brooch she wore, representing the profile of an undesirable female with a very straight nose and a very new moon, was a piece of portable property that had been given her by wemmick. And by george, sir, it’s a thing worth mentioning, that of all the people who come to this gate, the secret of those pulls is only known to the aged, miss skiffins, and me!” After an interval of suspense on my part that was quite enthralling and almost painful, i saw his hand appear on the other side of miss skiffins.
The lady with whom estella was placed, mrs. brandley by name, was a widow, with one daughter several years older than estella. “warning not to be attracted by you, do you mean, estella?” “can i take you, estella!”
“why do you, a stranger coming into my rooms at this time of the night, ask that question?” said i. “you acted noble, my boy,” said he. “stay!” said i.
“where are you to live?” said i. “and only he?” said i. “yes,” said i.
“but there is another question,” said herbert. “assuredly,” replied herbert. “remember!” said he.
“‘to judge from appearances, you’re out of luck,’ says compeyson to me. “‘what can you do?’ says compeyson. Did i tell you as i was tried, alone, for misdemeanor, while with compeyson?”
When we drove up to the blue boar after a drizzly ride, whom should i see come out under the gateway, toothpick in hand, to look at the coach, but bentley drummle! “is this a cut?” said mr. drummle. “beastly place,” said drummle.
“they are your friends,” said miss havisham. I have no hope that i shall ever call you mine, estella. I think that, in the endurance of her own trial, she forgot mine, estella.”
“not personally,” said i. “halloa, mr. pip!” said wemmick. “time’s up,” said wemmick, “and i must be off.
“surely that’s not his name, herbert?” “there is an unconscionable old shark for you!” said herbert. Then, i began to go out as for training and practice: sometimes alone, sometimes with herbert.
He can’t be in sight,” said mr. wopsle. Let me start from my bed as i would, with the terror fresh upon me that he was discovered; let me sit listening, as i would with dread, for herbert’s returning step at night, lest it should be fleeter than ordinary, and winged with evil news,—for all that, and much more to like purpose, the round of things went on. “he went out before i went off.
“don’t you know?” said mr. jaggers. “you are going to dine?” said mr. jaggers. Wemmick drank a glass of wine, and looked with a grimly satisfied air at mr. jaggers, but not at me.
Something that you would like done, is it not?” Regarding that as done, is there nothing i can do for you yourself?” “what have i done!
“dear little thing!” said herbert. “and then you will be married, herbert?” “tell me what provis said, my dear herbert.”
“everybody should know his own business,” said mr. jaggers. “yes?” said mr. jaggers. You know the young lady’s father, pip?” said mr. jaggers.
“but how much would you tell him, herbert?” “if you are not afraid to come to the old marshes to-night or to-morrow night at nine, and to come to the little sluice-house by the limekiln, you had better come. _you must come alone_.
Seeing nothing save what i had seen already, i turned back into the house, and stood just within the shelter of the doorway, looking out into the night. It was never so well worth your while to get me out of this country as it is to-night. You goes out of his way this present night.
We certainly had not been, and at that time as certainly we were not either attended or followed by any boat. Not a word was spoken in either boat. “but for your face i should think you were a little despondent,” said i.
“i have not leisure to think of that,” said i. “i will,” said i. “and clara?” said i.
A gentle pressure on my hand. A stronger pressure on my hand. Not to lose a moment of the time.”
But, above all, i knew that there was a constant tendency in all these people,—who, when i was very ill, would present all kinds of extraordinary transformations of the human face, and would be much dilated in size,—above all, i say, i knew that there was an extraordinary tendency in all these people, sooner or later, to settle down into the likeness of joe. Whoever came about me, still settled down into joe. I opened my eyes in the night, and i saw, in the great chair at the bedside, joe.
I looked at both of them, from one to the other, and then—  “it’s my wedding-day!” cried biddy, in a burst of happiness, “and i am married to joe!” “which he warn’t strong enough, my dear, fur to be surprised,” said joe. My first thought was one of great thankfulness that i had never breathed this last baffled hope to joe.
“no, no,” said biddy, gently. “so herbert and clara say, but i don’t think i shall, biddy. “o no,—i think not, biddy.”
