“tell us your name!” said the man. “show us where you live,” said the man. “now lookee here!” said the man. It is in wain for a boy to attempt to hide himself from that young man. “say lord strike you dead if you don’t!” said the man.
“has she been gone long, joe?” And it was made the more difficult by the unconscious joe. “hark!” said i, when i had done my stirring, and was taking a final warm in the chimney corner before being sent up to bed; “was that great guns, joe?” “ah!” said joe. I had begun by asking questions, and i was going to rob mrs. joe.
He instantly jumped up, and it was not the same man, but another man! “it’s the young man!” “the young man. “what’s in the bottle, boy?” said he. “brandy,” said i.
“ah! well!” observed mrs. joe. “perhaps if i warn’t a blacksmith’s wife, and (what’s the same thing) a slave with her apron never off, _i_ should have been to hear the carols,” said mrs. joe. Mrs. Joe, who had ventured into the kitchen after me as the dustpan had retired before us, drew the back of his hand across his nose with a conciliatory air, when mrs. Every christmas day, mrs.
“ay!” returned the sergeant, “two. Hob and nob,” returned the sergeant. “lookee here!” said my convict to the sergeant. “enough of this parley,” said the sergeant. “all right,” said the sergeant.
He must have had a tiresome journey of it, for mr. wopsle, being knocked up, was in such a very bad temper that if the church had been thrown open, he would probably have excommunicated the whole expedition, beginning with joe and myself. That, if joe knew it, i never afterwards could see him glance, however casually, at yesterday’s meat or pudding when it came on to-day’s table, without thinking that he was debating whether i had been in the pantry. In his lay capacity, he persisted in sitting down in the damp to such an insane extent, that when his coat was taken off to be dried at the kitchen fire, the circumstantial evidence on his trousers would have hanged him, if it had been a capital offence. From my sister,) i found joe telling them about the convict’s confession, and all the visitors suggesting different ways by which he had got into the pantry. Mr. wopsle, indeed, wildly cried out, “no!” with the feeble malice of a tired man; but, as he had no theory, and no coat on, he was unanimously set at naught,—not to mention his smoking hard behind, as he stood with his back to the kitchen fire to draw the damp out: which was not calculated to inspire confidence.
One night i was sitting in the chimney corner with my slate, expending great efforts on the production of a letter to joe. Here’s a j and a o, pip, and a j-o, joe.” “how do you spell gargery, joe?” “i don’t spell it at all,” said joe. “it _can’t_ be supposed,” said joe.
“oh!” she said. “yes,” she replied; “but it meant more than it said. “you do,” said she. “did you wish to see miss havisham?” “look at me,” said miss havisham.
Not only that, but i felt convinced that miss havisham too would not be understood; and although she was perfectly incomprehensible to me, i entertained an impression that there would be something coarse and treacherous in my dragging her as she really was (to say nothing of miss estella) before the contemplation of mrs. joe. “can this be possible, uncle?” asked mrs. joe. “did you ever see her in it, uncle?” asked mrs. joe. “remember?” said joe. “you don’t mean to say it’s—”  “yes i do; it’s lies, joe.”
“yes. i said it, you know,” said joe. “that’s it,” said joe. “most marshes is solitary,” said joe. “once,” returned joe. “yes, joe.”
“now?” said she. “because i’ll never cry for you again,” said i. Hey?” said he. “yes, sir,” said i. “who let _you_ in?” said he.
“yes, miss havisham.” “at any particular time, miss havisham?” My mind grew very uneasy on the subject of the pale young gentleman. There was a song joe used to hum fragments of at the forge, of which the burden was old clem. Old clem!
“oh!” said she to joe. “of ladies’ company,” said joe. “she giv’ him,” said joe, “nothing.” “what would present company say to ten pound?” demanded joe. “it’s more than that, then,” said joe.
Never has that curtain dropped so heavy and blank, as when my way in life lay stretched out straight before me through the newly entered road of apprenticeship to joe. For, though it includes what i proceed to add, all the merit of what i proceed to add was joe’s. Joe had sanctified it, and i had believed in it. The change was made in me; the thing was done. Well or ill done, excusably or inexcusably, it was done.
Whatever i acquired, i tried to impart to joe. “what for, joe? “don’t you think i might say that i did not, joe?” “you might, old chap,” said joe. What do you think of it, joe?”
Biddy looked thoughtfully at it, heard my explanation, looked thoughtfully at my sister, looked thoughtfully at joe (who was always represented on the slate by his initial letter), and ran into the forge, followed by joe and me. Further, one of those two was already retaken, and had not freed himself of his iron. When my sister found that biddy was very quick to understand her, this mysterious sign reappeared on the slate. She had lost his name, and could only signify him by his hammer. The man could not be more particular as to the time at which he saw her (he got into dense confusion when he tried to be), than that it must have been before nine.
Imperceptibly i became conscious of a change in biddy, however. But you never turn to at it, biddy.” Biddy sat quietly sewing, shedding no more tears, and while i looked at her and thought about it all, it occurred to me that perhaps i had not been sufficiently grateful to biddy. “ah, poor thing!” replied biddy. “well, then, understand once for all that i never shall or can be comfortable—or anything but miserable—there, biddy!
“here is the man,” said joe. “the answer is,” returned joe, sternly, “no.” He sat astride of the chair when he had pushed the money over, and sat swinging his purse and eyeing joe. “it were understood,” said joe. “i would rather you told, joe.”
What are you stopping for?” said i. The united vastness and distinctness of this view so struck him, that he no longer asked if he might shake hands with me, but said he really must,—and did. He said with a tearful smile that it was a singular thing to think of now, and i said so too. “you?” said she. “don’t go, sarah,” she said.
This time, i made the tour of little britain, and turned into bartholomew close; and now i became aware that other people were waiting about for mr. jaggers, as well as i. “that’s what i told you not to do,” said mr. jaggers. “yes, mr. jaggers.” “and do you remember,” retorted mr. jaggers, “that but for me you wouldn’t be here and couldn’t be here?” “now, i tell you what!” said mr. jaggers.
“no, thank you,” said i. I was rather confused, thinking it must be out of the london fashion, but said yes. “mr. pip?” said he. “so you were never in london before?” said mr. wemmick to me. “no,” said i.  “_i_ was new here once,” said mr. wemmick.
“the idea of its being you!” said he. “the idea of its being _you_!” said i. “no,” said i. “none,” said he. “lord, mr. pip!” said he.
“—that it _is_ hard,” said mrs. coiler, “to have dear mr. pocket’s time and attention diverted from dear mrs. pocket.” “how dare you tell me so?” retorted mrs. pocket. “i will not allow anybody to interfere,” said mrs. pocket. “what do you mean, belinda?” demanded mr. pocket. “sophia has told you,” said mrs. pocket.
You had a particular fancy for me, hadn’t you, old artful?” said wemmick. “is the lady anybody?” said i.  “no,” returned wemmick. I felt that this delicacy arose out of the consideration that the plan would save herbert some expense, so i went off to little britain and imparted my wish to mr. jaggers. “come!” retorted mr. jaggers. “five pounds?” said mr. jaggers.
“that’s it!” returned wemmick. “they dread him so much?” said i.  “dread him,” said wemmick. “it’s very massive,” said i.  “massive?” repeated wemmick. “my own doing,” said wemmick. “is it your own, mr. wemmick?”
To my surprise, he seemed at once to be principally if not solely interested in drummle. “_you_ should think!” retorted drummle. “you are right,” said drummle. “_you_ should say,” repeated drummle. Herbert there and you,” growled drummle.
“joe, how are you, joe?” “i am glad to see you, joe. “had a drop, joe?” “were you at his performance, joe?” “us two being now alone, sir,”—began joe.
“or mine,” said the other, gruffly. “no,” said i, “certainly not.” But i had a reason that was an old reason now for constitutionally faltering whenever i heard the word “convict.” As fur as i am concerned any one’s welcome to _my_ place.” “what might have been your opinion of the place?”
I said. “ah!” said he, dryly. “burn me twice over, if i can say!” said he. “oh!” said she. “naturally,” said i.
“well, herbert? “what next, i mean?” said herbert. “name of clara,” said herbert. “he’s an invalid now,” replied herbert. “on the first floor,” said herbert.
“oh!” said i. “yes. So i said “capitally.” I repeated—when herbert murmured in my ear, “probably wopsle.” “waldengarver?” We basely replied that we rather thought we had noticed such a man.
“bless your soul and body, no,” answered wemmick, very drily. “all right, mr. wemmick.” “i think i shall be out of this on monday, sir,” he said to wemmick. “i’ll accept the will for the deed,” said wemmick. “why don’t you ask him?” returned wemmick.
“a carriage will have to be sent for, estella. Yet the room was all in all to me, estella being in it. I asked estella. “at least?” repeated estella. “no, no you may be sure of that,” said estella.
Now, concerning the influence of my position on others, i was in no such difficulty, and so i perceived—though dimly enough perhaps—that it was not beneficial to anybody, and, above all, that it was not beneficial to herbert. When we had written a little while, i would ask herbert how he got on? He had nothing else to do, poor fellow, except at a certain hour of every afternoon to “go to lloyd’s”—in observance of a ceremony of seeing his principal, i think. So he got into difficulties in every direction, and continued to look about him. Every morning, with an air ever new, herbert went into the city to look about him.
“do you, mr. pip?” said biddy. “how are you going to live, biddy? Except in my bad side of human nature,” murmured biddy. “i have not heard the particulars of my sister’s death, biddy.” “nothing was ever discovered, biddy?”
“what is it?” said he. “i don’t understand you,” said i. “now, i have asked _you_ a question, my friend,” said mr. jaggers. “ask one,” said mr. jaggers. “you know you must say yes; don’t you?” said mr. jaggers.
I inferred from the methodical nature of miss skiffins’s arrangements that she made tea there every sunday night; and i rather suspected that a classic brooch she wore, representing the profile of an undesirable female with a very straight nose and a very new moon, was a piece of portable property that had been given her by wemmick. And by george, sir, it’s a thing worth mentioning, that of all the people who come to this gate, the secret of those pulls is only known to the aged, miss skiffins, and me!” After an interval of suspense on my part that was quite enthralling and almost painful, i saw his hand appear on the other side of miss skiffins. Taking the table to represent the path of virtue, i am justified in stating that during the whole time of the aged’s reading, wemmick’s arm was straying from the path of virtue and being recalled to it by miss skiffins. On arriving before the battlements, i found the union jack flying and the drawbridge up; but undeterred by this show of defiance and resistance, i rang at the gate, and was admitted in a most pacific manner by the aged.
The lady with whom estella was placed, mrs. brandley by name, was a widow, with one daughter several years older than estella. “warning not to be attracted by you, do you mean, estella?” “can i take you, estella!” “you should know,” said estella. “who taught me to be proud?” returned estella.
“why do you, a stranger coming into my rooms at this time of the night, ask that question?” said i. “you acted noble, my boy,” said he. “stay!” said i. “i hope to hear you say so, my dear boy.” “might a mere warmint ask what property?” said he.
“where are you to live?” said i. “and only he?” said i. “yes,” said i. “that’s it, dear boy! “yes, dear boy.
“but there is another question,” said herbert. “assuredly,” replied herbert. “remember!” said he. I ain’t made pip a gentleman, and pip ain’t a-going to make you a gentleman, not fur me not to know what’s due to ye both. Of course i broke down there: and of course herbert, beyond seizing a warm grip of my hand, pretended not to know it.
“‘to judge from appearances, you’re out of luck,’ says compeyson to me. “‘what can you do?’ says compeyson. Did i tell you as i was tried, alone, for misdemeanor, while with compeyson?” “compeyson.” “‘i don’t know how she’s there,’ says
When we drove up to the blue boar after a drizzly ride, whom should i see come out under the gateway, toothpick in hand, to look at the coach, but bentley drummle! “is this a cut?” said mr. drummle. “beastly place,” said drummle. “not in the least like it,” said drummle. “can’t say,” answered mr. drummle.
“they are your friends,” said miss havisham. I have no hope that i shall ever call you mine, estella. I think that, in the endurance of her own trial, she forgot mine, estella.” I saw miss havisham put her hand to her heart and hold it there, as she sat looking by turns at estella and at me. You, so young, untried, and beautiful, estella!
“not personally,” said i. “halloa, mr. pip!” said wemmick. “time’s up,” said wemmick, “and i must be off. The little servant happening to be entering the fortress with two hot rolls, i passed through the postern and crossed the drawbridge in her company, and so came without announcement into the presence of wemmick as he was making tea for himself and the aged. What a doleful night!
“surely that’s not his name, herbert?” “there is an unconscionable old shark for you!” said herbert. Then, i began to go out as for training and practice: sometimes alone, sometimes with herbert. “at rum?” said i. “i don’t know,” said i.
He can’t be in sight,” said mr. wopsle. Let me start from my bed as i would, with the terror fresh upon me that he was discovered; let me sit listening, as i would with dread, for herbert’s returning step at night, lest it should be fleeter than ordinary, and winged with evil news,—for all that, and much more to like purpose, the round of things went on. “he went out before i went off. No one was near me when i went in and went home. “i saw that you saw me.”
“don’t you know?” said mr. jaggers. “you are going to dine?” said mr. jaggers. Wemmick drank a glass of wine, and looked with a grimly satisfied air at mr. jaggers, but not at me. If he should turn to, and beat her—”  “surely,” i interrupted, with a burning face and heart, “you do not seriously think that he is scoundrel enough for that, mr. jaggers?” “what’s the matter?” said mr. jaggers.
Something that you would like done, is it not?” Regarding that as done, is there nothing i can do for you yourself?” “what have i done! What have i done!” “what have i done!”
“dear little thing!” said herbert. “and then you will be married, herbert?” “tell me what provis said, my dear herbert.” “it is impossible to be gentler, herbert. “perhaps i do, herbert.
“everybody should know his own business,” said mr. jaggers. “yes?” said mr. jaggers. You know the young lady’s father, pip?” said mr. jaggers. “what’s all this?” said mr. jaggers. “_you_ with a pleasant home?” said mr. jaggers.
“but how much would you tell him, herbert?” “if you are not afraid to come to the old marshes to-night or to-morrow night at nine, and to come to the little sluice-house by the limekiln, you had better come. _you must come alone_. If you want information regarding _your uncle provis_, you had much better come and tell no one, and lose no time. I had had load enough upon my mind before the receipt of this strange letter.
Seeing nothing save what i had seen already, i turned back into the house, and stood just within the shelter of the doorway, looking out into the night. It was never so well worth your while to get me out of this country as it is to-night. You goes out of his way this present night. “i come upon her from behind, as i come upon you to-night. It was old orlick as you tumbled over on your stairs that night.”
We certainly had not been, and at that time as certainly we were not either attended or followed by any boat. Not a word was spoken in either boat. “but for your face i should think you were a little despondent,” said i. Yet he was as submissive to a word of advice as if he had been in constant terror; for, when we ran ashore to get some bottles of beer into the boat, and he was stepping out, i hinted that i thought he would be safest where he was, and he said. Also, there were two double-bedded rooms,—“such as they were,” the landlord said.
“i have not leisure to think of that,” said i. “i will,” said i. “and clara?” said i. “halloa!” said he. “yes, to be sure,” said wemmick.
A gentle pressure on my hand. A stronger pressure on my hand. Not to lose a moment of the time.” “are you in much pain to-day?” “you always waits at the gate; don’t you, dear boy?”
But, above all, i knew that there was a constant tendency in all these people,—who, when i was very ill, would present all kinds of extraordinary transformations of the human face, and would be much dilated in size,—above all, i say, i knew that there was an extraordinary tendency in all these people, sooner or later, to settle down into the likeness of joe. Whoever came about me, still settled down into joe. I opened my eyes in the night, and i saw, in the great chair at the bedside, joe. I opened my eyes in the day, and, sitting on the window-seat, smoking his pipe in the shaded open window, still i saw joe. I sank back on my pillow after drinking, and the face that looked so hopefully and tenderly upon me was the face of joe.
I looked at both of them, from one to the other, and then—  “it’s my wedding-day!” cried biddy, in a burst of happiness, “and i am married to joe!” “which he warn’t strong enough, my dear, fur to be surprised,” said joe. My first thought was one of great thankfulness that i had never breathed this last baffled hope to joe. “and, dear joe, you have the best wife in the whole world, and she will make you as happy as even you deserve to be, you dear, good, noble joe!” Dear joe,
“no, no,” said biddy, gently. “so herbert and clara say, but i don’t think i shall, biddy. “o no,—i think not, biddy.” Then, it faltered, as if much surprised, and uttered my name, and i cried out,—  “estella!” “yes, estella.”
