I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man. What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man? I paused; at length he spoke, in broken accents: “unhappy man!
I remained for several years their only child. One of his most intimate friends was a merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous mischances, into poverty. She procured plain work; she plaited straw and by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life.
In this house i chanced to find a volume of the works of cornelius agrippa. A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, i communicated my discovery to my father. Cornelius agrippa!
He was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science. As a child i had not been content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural science. Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which the greatest improvements have been and may be made; it is on that account that i have made it my peculiar study; but at the same time, i have not neglected the other branches of science.
One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any animal endued with life. It was with these feelings that i began the creation of a human being. My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; i seemed to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit.
I could hardly believe that so great a good fortune could have befallen me, but when i became assured that my enemy had indeed fled, i clapped my hands for joy and ran down to clerval. Poor clerval! But i was not the witness of his grief, for i was lifeless and did not recover my senses for a long, long time.
She is a widow, and much older than manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with everybody. This girl had always been the favourite of her father, but through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and after the death of m. moritz, treated her very ill. “justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and i recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one glance from justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that ariosto gives concerning the beauty of angelica—she looked so frank-hearted and happy.
We have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him are unremitted; but they will not restore my beloved william! It was an historical subject, painted at my father’s desire, and represented caroline beaufort in an agony of despair, kneeling by the coffin of her dead father. Poor william!
“oh, justine! From the tortures of my own heart, i turned to contemplate the deep and voiceless grief of my elizabeth. Several strange facts combined against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof of her innocence as i had.
I wished to see him again, that i might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the deaths of william and justine. For the sake of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend, a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if it had been her own! Mont blanc, the supreme and magnificent mont blanc, raised itself from the surrounding _aiguilles_, and its tremendous _dôme_ overlooked the valley.
For some time i sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice. A mist covered both that and the surrounding mountains. I was troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and i felt a faintness seize me, but i was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains.
As soon as morning dawned i crept from my kennel, that i might view the adjacent cottage and discover if i could remain in the habitation i had found. “here, then, i retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter, however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more from the barbarity of man. Uttering a few sounds with an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the cottage himself.
I thought of the occurrences of the day. I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man.
Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of felix. The mild exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved felix were not for me. I was, besides, endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; i was not even of the same nature as man.
“the day for the execution of the turk was fixed, but on the night previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant many leagues from paris. He had previously communicated his plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under the pretence of a journey and concealed himself, with his daughter, in an obscure part of paris. His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from paris.
“several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. “one day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, safie, agatha, and felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own desire, was left alone in the cottage. The fresh air revived me, and with renewed determination i approached the door of their cottage.
“when my hunger was appeased, i directed my steps towards the well-known path that conducted to the cottage. “‘it is utterly useless,’ replied felix; ‘we can never again inhabit your cottage. Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this place.’
“i do refuse it,” i replied; “and no torture shall ever extort a consent from me. I have answered you; you may torture me, but i will never consent.” This may not be; cease to argue the point, for i cannot consent.”
These feelings dictated my answer to my father. To england, therefore, i was bound, and it was understood that my union with elizabeth should take place immediately on my return. But he had promised to follow me wherever i might go, and would he not accompany me to england?
19   london was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several months in this wonderful and celebrated city. It was a monotonous yet ever-changing scene. But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to my heart.
I go; but remember, i shall be with you on your wedding-night.” And then i thought again of his words—“_i will be with you on your wedding-night._” I had before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair as a thing that, with whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but i now felt as if a film had been taken from before my eyes and that i for the first time saw clearly.
I found several letters, and, among others, one which i discovered from its commencement to be from your father. Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father. One day, while i was gradually recovering, i was seated in a chair, my eyes half open and my cheeks livid like those in death.
Sweet and beloved elizabeth! In this state of mind i wrote to elizabeth. Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage with elizabeth.
I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind. This state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and i rushed into the room. The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room.
How i have lived i hardly know; many times have i stretched my failing limbs upon the sandy plain and prayed for death. To you first entering on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand what i have felt and still feel? What agonising fondness did i feel for them!
