I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man. What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man? I paused; at length he spoke, in broken accents: “unhappy man! You have been tutored and refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man. You may deem me romantic, my dear sister, but i bitterly feel the want of a friend.
I remained for several years their only child. One of his most intimate friends was a merchant who, from a flourishing state, fell, through numerous mischances, into poverty. She procured plain work; she plaited straw and by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life. He strove to shelter her, as a fair exotic is sheltered by the gardener, from every rougher wind and to surround her with all that could tend to excite pleasurable emotion in her soft and benevolent mind. Everyone loved elizabeth.
In this house i chanced to find a volume of the works of cornelius agrippa. A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, i communicated my discovery to my father. Cornelius agrippa! If, instead of this remark, my father had taken the pains to explain to me that the principles of agrippa had been entirely exploded and that a modern system of science had been introduced which possessed much greater powers than the ancient, because the powers of the latter were chimerical, while those of the former were real and practical, under such circumstances i should certainly have thrown agrippa aside and have contented my imagination, warmed as it was, by returning with greater ardour to my former studies. I have described myself as always having been imbued with a fervent longing to penetrate the secrets of nature.
He was an uncouth man, but deeply imbued in the secrets of his science. As a child i had not been content with the results promised by the modern professors of natural science. Chemistry is that branch of natural philosophy in which the greatest improvements have been and may be made; it is on that account that i have made it my peculiar study; but at the same time, i have not neglected the other branches of science. She joined the hands of elizabeth and myself. This expectation will now be the consolation of your father.
One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any animal endued with life. It was with these feelings that i began the creation of a human being. My limbs now tremble, and my eyes swim with the remembrance; but then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward; i seemed to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit. The summer months passed while i was thus engaged, heart and soul, in one pursuit. It was a most beautiful season; never did the fields bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines yield a more luxuriant vintage, but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature.
I could hardly believe that so great a good fortune could have befallen me, but when i became assured that my enemy had indeed fled, i clapped my hands for joy and ran down to clerval. Poor clerval! But i was not the witness of his grief, for i was lifeless and did not recover my senses for a long, long time. I grasped his hand, and in a moment forgot my horror and misfortune; i felt suddenly, and for the first time during many months, calm and serene joy. I took refuge in the courtyard belonging to the house which i inhabited, where i remained during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest agitation, listening attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which i had so miserably given life.
She is a widow, and much older than manoir; but she is very much admired, and a favourite with everybody. This girl had always been the favourite of her father, but through a strange perversity, her mother could not endure her, and after the death of m. moritz, treated her very ill. “justine, you may remember, was a great favourite of yours; and i recollect you once remarked that if you were in an ill humour, one glance from justine could dissipate it, for the same reason that ariosto gives concerning the beauty of angelica—she looked so frank-hearted and happy. Although her disposition was gay and in many respects inconsiderate, yet she paid the greatest attention to every gesture of my aunt. Accordingly, a few months after your departure for ingolstadt, justine was called home by her repentant mother.
We have no trace of him at present, although our exertions to discover him are unremitted; but they will not restore my beloved william! It was an historical subject, painted at my father’s desire, and represented caroline beaufort in an agony of despair, kneeling by the coffin of her dead father. Poor william! Victor says that he knows who was the murderer of poor william.” But she will not, i am sure she will not; and then i shall be happy again, even after the sad death of my little william.”
“oh, justine! From the tortures of my own heart, i turned to contemplate the deep and voiceless grief of my elizabeth. Several strange facts combined against her, which might have staggered anyone who had not such proof of her innocence as i had. I beg permission to have a few witnesses examined concerning my character, and if their testimony shall not overweigh my supposed guilt, i must be condemned, although i would pledge my salvation on my innocence.” For my own part, i do not hesitate to say that, notwithstanding all the evidence produced against her, i believe and rely on her perfect innocence.
I wished to see him again, that i might wreak the utmost extent of abhorrence on his head and avenge the deaths of william and justine. For the sake of a few jewels, to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend, a child whom she had nursed from its birth, and appeared to love as if it had been her own! Mont blanc, the supreme and magnificent mont blanc, raised itself from the surrounding _aiguilles_, and its tremendous _dôme_ overlooked the valley. Then i spurred on my animal, striving so to forget the world, my fears, and more than all, myself—or, in a more desperate fashion, i alighted and threw myself on the grass, weighed down by horror and despair. 9   nothing is more painful to the human mind than, after the feelings have been worked up by a quick succession of events, the dead calmness of inaction and certainty which follows and deprives the soul both of hope and fear.
For some time i sat upon the rock that overlooks the sea of ice. A mist covered both that and the surrounding mountains. I was troubled; a mist came over my eyes, and i felt a faintness seize me, but i was quickly restored by the cold gale of the mountains. He bounded over the crevices in the ice, among which i had walked with caution; his stature, also, as he approached, seemed to exceed that of man. You accuse me of murder, and yet you would, with a satisfied conscience, destroy your own creature.
As soon as morning dawned i crept from my kennel, that i might view the adjacent cottage and discover if i could remain in the habitation i had found. “here, then, i retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter, however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more from the barbarity of man. Uttering a few sounds with an air of melancholy, he took the pail from her head and bore it to the cottage himself. After he had been employed thus about an hour, the young woman joined him and they entered the cottage together. I was pained at this and sat still watching the operation of the fire.
I thought of the occurrences of the day. I learned also the names of the cottagers themselves. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man. “i could mention innumerable instances which, although slight, marked the dispositions of these amiable cottagers. It was not thus with felix.
Agatha asked a question, to which the stranger only replied by pronouncing, in a sweet accent, the name of felix. The mild exhortations of the old man and the lively conversation of the loved felix were not for me. I was, besides, endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; i was not even of the same nature as man. “felix seemed ravished with delight when he saw her, every trait of sorrow vanished from his face, and it instantly expressed a degree of ecstatic joy, of which i could hardly have believed it capable; his eyes sparkled, as his cheek flushed with pleasure; and at that moment i thought him as beautiful as the stranger. She played a simple air, and her voice accompanied it in sweet accents, but unlike the wondrous strain of the stranger.
“the day for the execution of the turk was fixed, but on the night previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant many leagues from paris. He had previously communicated his plan to the former, who aided the deceit by quitting his house, under the pretence of a journey and concealed himself, with his daughter, in an obscure part of paris. His plans were facilitated by the news which arrived from paris. They conversed with one another through the means of an interpreter, and sometimes with the interpretation of looks; and safie sang to him the divine airs of her native country. They remained confined for five months before the trial took place, the result of which deprived them of their fortune and condemned them to a perpetual exile from their native country.
“several changes, in the meantime, took place in the cottage. “one day, when the sun shone on the red leaves that strewed the ground and diffused cheerfulness, although it denied warmth, safie, agatha, and felix departed on a long country walk, and the old man, at his own desire, was left alone in the cottage. The fresh air revived me, and with renewed determination i approached the door of their cottage. Agatha fainted, and safie, unable to attend to her friend, rushed out of the cottage. ‘who is there?’ said the old man.
“when my hunger was appeased, i directed my steps towards the well-known path that conducted to the cottage. “‘it is utterly useless,’ replied felix; ‘we can never again inhabit your cottage. Take possession of your tenement and let me fly from this place.’ What a miserable night i passed! “but this was a luxury of sensation that could not endure; i became fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in the sick impotence of despair.
“i do refuse it,” i replied; “and no torture shall ever extort a consent from me. I have answered you; you may torture me, but i will never consent.” This may not be; cease to argue the point, for i cannot consent.” Our lives will not be happy, but they will be harmless and free from the misery i now feel. His tale and the feelings he now expressed proved him to be a creature of fine sensations, and did i not as his maker owe him all the portion of happiness that it was in my power to bestow?
These feelings dictated my answer to my father. To england, therefore, i was bound, and it was understood that my union with elizabeth should take place immediately on my return. But he had promised to follow me wherever i might go, and would he not accompany me to england? It was in the latter end of september that i again quitted my native country. Oh, surely the spirit that inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than those who pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the mountains of our own country.”
19   london was our present point of rest; we determined to remain several months in this wonderful and celebrated city. It was a monotonous yet ever-changing scene. But busy, uninteresting, joyous faces brought back despair to my heart. He was for ever busy, and the only check to his enjoyments was my sorrowful and dejected mind. From thence we proceeded to oxford.
I go; but remember, i shall be with you on your wedding-night.” And then i thought again of his words—“_i will be with you on your wedding-night._” I had before regarded my promise with a gloomy despair as a thing that, with whatever consequences, must be fulfilled; but i now felt as if a film had been taken from before my eyes and that i for the first time saw clearly. Mr. kirwin is a magistrate, and you are to give an account of the death of a gentleman who was found murdered here last night.” I saw vessels near the shore and found myself suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilised man.
I found several letters, and, among others, one which i discovered from its commencement to be from your father. Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father. One day, while i was gradually recovering, i was seated in a chair, my eyes half open and my cheeks livid like those in death. I was spared the disgrace of appearing publicly as a criminal, as the case was not brought before the court that decides on life and death. They instantly carried it to the cottage of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it to life.
Sweet and beloved elizabeth! In this state of mind i wrote to elizabeth. Soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage with elizabeth. But i concealed my feelings by an appearance of hilarity that brought smiles and joy to the countenance of my father, but hardly deceived the ever-watchful and nicer eye of elizabeth. I took the hand of elizabeth.
I had been calm during the day, but so soon as night obscured the shapes of objects, a thousand fears arose in my mind. This state lasted but for an instant; the scream was repeated, and i rushed into the room. The report of the pistol brought a crowd into the room. The rain had ceased for a moment, and i saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before; they had then been observed by elizabeth. A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been so miserable as i was; so frightful an event is single in the history of man.
How i have lived i hardly know; many times have i stretched my failing limbs upon the sandy plain and prayed for death. To you first entering on life, to whom care is new and agony unknown, how can you understand what i have felt and still feel? What agonising fondness did i feel for them! Again do i vow vengeance; again do i devote thee, miserable fiend, to torture and death. The work was soon finished; in a few minutes a tumultuous sea rolled between me and my enemy, and i was left drifting on a scattered piece of ice that was continually lessening and thus preparing for me a hideous death.
