Scene:  the mississippi valley time:  forty to fifty years ago
Aunt polly--tom's aunt polly, she is--and mary, and the widow douglas is all told about in that book, which is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as i said before. But i never said so. In a barrel of odds and ends it is different; things get mixed up, and the juice kind of swaps around, and the things go better.
So he set down on the ground betwixt me and tom. Jim always kept that five-center piece round his neck with a string, and said it was a charm the devil give to him with his own hands, and told him he could cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever he wanted to just by saying something to it; but he never told what it was he said to it. Everybody said:  “oh, she'll do.
Well, about this time he was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so people said. She told me to pray every day, and whatever i asked for i would get it. But it warn't so.
“no, sir,” i says; “is there some for me?” He studied a while, and then he says:  “oho-o! So the longer i went to school the easier it got to be.
You mark them words--don't forget i said them. When he got out the new judge said he was a-going to make a man of him. Judge thatcher's got it.
The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had got. Lots of 'em heard me, and can tell what i said. And what do you reckon they said?
I stood on the bank and looked out over the river. Then i took up the pig and held him to my breast with my jacket (so he couldn't drip) till i got a good piece below the house and then dumped him into the river. There was a slough or a creek leading out of it on the other side that went miles away, i don't know where, but it didn't go to the river.
I could see them first-rate, but they couldn't see me. I bet i was glad to see him. Don't you see i has?”
“well, you wouldn't a ben here 'f it hadn't a ben for jim. We put the lot into the canoe--it might come good. The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island.
I wish we could have some bad luck like this every day, jim.” It did come, too. I made up my mind i wouldn't ever take a-holt of a snake-skin again with my hands, now that i see what had come of it.
He lives at the upper end of the town, she says. Says i. No, nobody, says they.
So i says:  “le's land on her, jim.” Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides, nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see. I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and see what there was there.
Then bill _he_ come out and got in. But we got to have it anyway. But bill says:  “hold on--'d you go through him?”
“roun' de which?” Doan' talk to me 'bout sollermun, huck, i knows him by de back.” “no.”  “well, den, dey ain't no sense in a cat talkin' like a man.
“what's the matter with you, jim? “well, i think you're here, plain enough, but i think you're a tangle-headed old fool, jim.” “well, this is too many for me, jim.
That disturbed jim--and me too. I says:  “i'll take the canoe and go and see, jim. When i was fifty yards off, jim says:  “dah you goes, de ole true huck; de on'y white genlman dat ever kep' his promise to ole jim.”
“well, guess,” he says. I says. “why, any candle,” he says.
Each person had their own nigger to wait on them--buck too. Soon as i could get buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by ourselves, i says:  “did you want to kill him, buck?” “has this one been going on long, buck?”
The duke done it, and jim and me was pretty glad to see it. They wanted to jump right in, but i says:  “don't you do it. Nobody never said anything for a while; then the young man hove a sigh and says:  “alas!”
The duke said that was _him_. “you shall, then, before you're three days older, fallen grandeur,” says the duke. Pa's luck didn't hold out; a steamboat run over the forrard corner of the raft one night, and we all went overboard and dove under the wheel; jim and me come up all right, but pa was drunk, and ike was only four years old, so they never come up no more.
Well, next they got out a couple of long swords that the duke made out of oak laths, and begun to practice the sword fight--the duke called himself richard iii.; and the way they laid on and pranced around the raft was grand to see. It was beautiful to see him. Then he strikes a most noble attitude, with one leg shoved forwards, and his arms stretched away up, and his head tilted back, looking up at the sky; and then he begins to rip and rave and grit his teeth; and after that, all through his speech, he howled, and spread around, and swelled up his chest, and just knocked the spots out of any acting ever i see before.
Well, all through the circus they done the most astonishing things; and all the time that clown carried on so it most killed the people. The ringmaster couldn't ever say a word to him but he was back at him quick as a wink with the funniest things a body ever said; and how he ever _could_ The bills said:
The duke says yes. “no,” i says, “it don't.” 'fetch up nell gwynn,' he says.
“run her nose in shore,” says the king. “git aboard,” says the king. I see what _he_ was up to; but i never said nothing, of course.
“it's a most amaz'n' good idea, duke--you _have_ got a rattlin' clever head on you,” says the king. They pawed the yaller-boys, and sifted them through their fingers and let them jingle down on the floor; and the king says: The king he spread his arms, and mary jane she jumped for them, and the hare-lip jumped for the duke, and there they had it!
Not a lie in it,” says i. They sets down then, and the king says:  “well, what is it? About an hour or two ago it would a been a little different, but now it made me feel bad and disappointed, the king rips out and says:  “what!
I thought them poor girls and them niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried around each other, and took on so it most made me down sick to see it. I was just starting down the ladder, and i see them.” And they didn't act anyway much, as fur as i see.
“good,” she says, “i'll do it.” “oh, yes,” i says, “i _would_. I felt awful bad to see it; of course anybody would.
But i didn't see no joke about it, and i judged it would strain the duke and the king some to see any. I see him there. Well, then they sailed in on the general investigation, and there we had it, up and down, hour in, hour out, and nobody never said a word about supper, nor ever seemed to think about it--and so they kept it up, and kept it up; and it _was_ the worst mixed-up thing you ever see.
I don't want to hear no more out of you!” says the duke. I know you _do_ know, because you done it yourself!” But you not only had it in mind to do it, but you _done_ it.”
He's a runaway nigger, and they've got him. “well,” he says, “you needn't be afeard no more, becuz they've got him. “it's a good job they got him.”
I see i'd got to invent a bar, or forget the name of the one we got aground on--or--now i struck an idea, and fetched it out:  “it warn't the grounding--that didn't keep us back but a little. “not where i hid it i reckon it won't,” i says. Phelps she jumps for him, and says:  “has he come?”
“honest injun, i ain't,” i says. He says:  “what! Tom sawyer he says the same.
“yes,” i says. “my plan is this,” i says. “that's more _like_,” he says.
Well, we can't help it; we got to do the best we can with the materials we've got. That's what they all do; and _he's_ got to, too. “what's _that_ got to do with it?
Then he says:  “now, the thing to study out is, how to get the things to jim.” Said we'd got to post jim first. “well, then, what we going to do, tom?”
I know perfectly well i took it _off_, because--” The rats could a got the candles, and i reckon they did; i wonder they don't walk off with the whole place, the way you're always going to stop their holes and don't do it; and if they warn't fools they'd sleep in your hair, silas--_you'd_ never find it out; but you can't lay the _spoon_ on the rats, and that i know.” “i know, but--”
“no, sah, thanks to goodness i hain't, mars tom.” “keep what, mars tom?” “de goodness gracious alive, mars tom!
“that ain't got nothing to do with it. It was the most undigestible sawdust i ever see; and tom said the same. This letter said:
“we can get along without it,” i says. His eyes just blazed; and he says:  “no!--is that so? I says.
“who is your folks?” he says. “oh,” he says. “singular dream,” he says.
There ain't but one; how we set the runaway nigger free--me and tom.” We _did_ set him free--me and tom. I've knowed him all his life, and so has tom, there.
We had jim out of the chains in no time, and when aunt polly and uncle silas and aunt sally found out how good he helped the doctor nurse tom, they made a heap of fuss over him, and fixed him up prime, and give him all he wanted to eat, and a good time, and nothing to do. I says:  “why, jim?” And we had him up to the sick-room, and had a high talk; and tom give jim forty dollars for being prisoner for us so patient, and doing it up so good, and jim was pleased most to death, and busted out, and says:  “dah, now, huck, what i tell you?
