Scene:  the mississippi valley time:  forty to fifty years ago
Aunt polly--tom's aunt polly, she is--and mary, and the widow douglas is all told about in that book, which is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as i said before. But i never said so. In a barrel of odds and ends it is different; things get mixed up, and the juice kind of swaps around, and the things go better. Her sister, miss watson, a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on, had just come to live with her, and took a set at me now with a spelling-book. The widow rung a bell for supper, and you had to come to time.
So he set down on the ground betwixt me and tom. Jim always kept that five-center piece round his neck with a string, and said it was a charm the devil give to him with his own hands, and told him he could cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever he wanted to just by saying something to it; but he never told what it was he said to it. Everybody said:  “oh, she'll do. “nothing only robbery and murder,” tom said. Why couldn't you said that before?
Well, about this time he was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so people said. She told me to pray every day, and whatever i asked for i would get it. But it warn't so. “how you going to get them?” How do _they_ get them?”
“no, sir,” i says; “is there some for me?” He studied a while, and then he says:  “oho-o! So the longer i went to school the easier it got to be. You'll take it--won't you?” He said he would split open a raw irish potato and stick the quarter in between and keep it there all night, and next morning you couldn't see no brass, and it wouldn't feel greasy no more, and so anybody in town would take it in a minute, let alone a hair-ball.
You mark them words--don't forget i said them. When he got out the new judge said he was a-going to make a man of him. Judge thatcher's got it. “maybe i am, maybe i ain't,” i says. “don't you give me none o' your lip,” says he.
The old man made me go to the skiff and fetch the things he had got. Lots of 'em heard me, and can tell what i said. And what do you reckon they said? He catched me a couple of times and thrashed me, but i went to school just the same, and dodged him or outrun him most of the time. Two months or more run along, and my clothes got to be all rags and dirt, and i didn't see how i'd ever got to like it so well at the widow's, where you had to wash, and eat on a plate, and comb up, and go to bed and get up regular, and be forever bothering over a book, and have old miss watson pecking at you all the time.
I stood on the bank and looked out over the river. Then i took up the pig and held him to my breast with my jacket (so he couldn't drip) till i got a good piece below the house and then dumped him into the river. There was a slough or a creek leading out of it on the other side that went miles away, i don't know where, but it didn't go to the river. I says to myself, they'll follow the track of that sackful of rocks to the shore and then drag the river for me. We got five catfish off the lines and went home.
I could see them first-rate, but they couldn't see me. I bet i was glad to see him. Don't you see i has?” Pretty soon he gapped and stretched himself and hove off the blanket, and it was miss watson's jim! I was ever so glad to see jim.
“well, you wouldn't a ben here 'f it hadn't a ben for jim. We put the lot into the canoe--it might come good. The light begun to come before we got to the foot of the island. You hold still--i'll go en see.” Jim throwed some old rags over him, but he needn't done it; i didn't want to see him.
I wish we could have some bad luck like this every day, jim.” It did come, too. I made up my mind i wouldn't ever take a-holt of a snake-skin again with my hands, now that i see what had come of it. Well, here's your bad luck! So we shortened up one of the calico gowns, and i turned up my trouser-legs to my knees and got into it.
He lives at the upper end of the town, she says. Says i. No, nobody, says they. Before night they wanted to lynch him, but he was gone, you see. I took the canoe out from the shore a little piece, and took a look; but if there was a boat around i couldn't see it, for stars and shadows ain't good to see by.
So i says:  “le's land on her, jim.” Every night we passed towns, some of them away up on black hillsides, nothing but just a shiny bed of lights; not a house could you see. I wanted to get aboard of her and slink around a little, and see what there was there. “well, we can wait the two hours anyway and see, can't we?” We's doin' blame' well, en we better let blame' well alone, as de good book says.
Then bill _he_ come out and got in. But we got to have it anyway. But bill says:  “hold on--'d you go through him?” So i said i would go for it. The skiff was half full of plunder which that gang had stole there on the wreck.
“roun' de which?” Doan' talk to me 'bout sollermun, huck, i knows him by de back.” “no.”  “well, den, dey ain't no sense in a cat talkin' like a man. Is a cow a man? Is a frenchman a man?”
“what's the matter with you, jim? “well, i think you're here, plain enough, but i think you're a tangle-headed old fool, jim.” “well, this is too many for me, jim. But this one was a staving dream; tell me all about it, jim.” I couldn't tell nothing about voices in a fog, for nothing don't look natural nor sound natural in a fog.
That disturbed jim--and me too. I says:  “i'll take the canoe and go and see, jim. When i was fifty yards off, jim says:  “dah you goes, de ole true huck; de on'y white genlman dat ever kep' his promise to ole jim.” “a piece of a raft,” i says. I says:  “jim!”
“well, guess,” he says. I says. “why, any candle,” he says. “i don't know where he was,” says i; “where was he?” “yes,” he says.
Each person had their own nigger to wait on them--buck too. Soon as i could get buck down by the corn-cribs under the trees by ourselves, i says:  “did you want to kill him, buck?” “has this one been going on long, buck?” “what was the trouble about, buck? “has there been many killed, buck?”
The duke done it, and jim and me was pretty glad to see it. They wanted to jump right in, but i says:  “don't you do it. Nobody never said anything for a while; then the young man hove a sigh and says:  “alas!” Then the duke says:  “you are what?” Here is the way we put in the time.
The duke said that was _him_. “you shall, then, before you're three days older, fallen grandeur,” says the duke. Pa's luck didn't hold out; a steamboat run over the forrard corner of the raft one night, and we all went overboard and dove under the wheel; jim and me come up all right, but pa was drunk, and ike was only four years old, so they never come up no more. Pa was pretty poor, and had some debts; so when he'd squared up there warn't nothing left but sixteen dollars and our nigger, jim. I had the middle watch, you know, but i was pretty sleepy by that time, so jim he said he would stand the first half of it for me; he was always mighty good that way, jim was.
Well, next they got out a couple of long swords that the duke made out of oak laths, and begun to practice the sword fight--the duke called himself richard iii.; and the way they laid on and pranced around the raft was grand to see. It was beautiful to see him. Then he strikes a most noble attitude, with one leg shoved forwards, and his arms stretched away up, and his head tilted back, looking up at the sky; and then he begins to rip and rave and grit his teeth; and after that, all through his speech, he howled, and spread around, and swelled up his chest, and just knocked the spots out of any acting ever i see before. They took boggs to a little drug store, the crowd pressing around just the same, and the whole town following, and i rushed and got a good place at the window, where i was close to him and could see in. All the loafers looked glad; i reckoned they was used to having fun out of boggs.
Well, all through the circus they done the most astonishing things; and all the time that clown carried on so it most killed the people. The ringmaster couldn't ever say a word to him but he was back at him quick as a wink with the funniest things a body ever said; and how he ever _could_ The bills said: “you didn't want to come. Why, it was one of his own men!
The duke says yes. “no,” i says, “it don't.” 'fetch up nell gwynn,' he says. She warn't on'y 'bout fo' year ole, en she tuck de sk'yarlet fever, en had a powful rough spell; but she got well, en one day she was a-stannin' aroun', en i says to her, i says:  “'shet de do'.' Shet de do'!'
“run her nose in shore,” says the king. “git aboard,” says the king. I see what _he_ was up to; but i never said nothing, of course. Blamed if he warn't the horriblest looking outrage i ever see. Jump out and he'p the gentleman, adolphus”--meaning me, i see.
“it's a most amaz'n' good idea, duke--you _have_ got a rattlin' clever head on you,” says the king. They pawed the yaller-boys, and sifted them through their fingers and let them jingle down on the floor; and the king says: The king he spread his arms, and mary jane she jumped for them, and the hare-lip jumped for the duke, and there they had it! “hold on,” says the duke. And, mind you, everybody was doing the same; and the place was that damp i never see anything like it.
Not a lie in it,” says i. They sets down then, and the king says:  “well, what is it? About an hour or two ago it would a been a little different, but now it made me feel bad and disappointed, the king rips out and says:  “what! The king says:  “why?” “well, who said it was?”
I thought them poor girls and them niggers would break their hearts for grief; they cried around each other, and took on so it most made me down sick to see it. I was just starting down the ladder, and i see them.” And they didn't act anyway much, as fur as i see. I don't wish to be mixed up in no such business as that, i says to myself. Then the duke says:  “what, all of them?”
“good,” she says, “i'll do it.” “oh, yes,” i says, “i _would_. I felt awful bad to see it; of course anybody would. She said the beautiful trip to england was most about spoiled for her; she didn't know _how_ she was ever going to be happy there, knowing the mother and the children warn't ever going to see each other no more--and then busted out bitterer than ever, and flung up her hands, and says:  “oh, dear, dear, to think they ain't _ever_ going to see each other any more!” I never see nothing like it.
But i didn't see no joke about it, and i judged it would strain the duke and the king some to see any. I see him there. Well, then they sailed in on the general investigation, and there we had it, up and down, hour in, hour out, and nobody never said a word about supper, nor ever seemed to think about it--and so they kept it up, and kept it up; and it _was_ the worst mixed-up thing you ever see. It's jest a small, thin, blue arrow--that's what it is; and if you don't look clost, you can't see it. So they dug and dug like everything; and it got awful dark, and the rain started, and the wind swished and swushed along, and the lightning come brisker and brisker, and the thunder boomed; but them people never took no notice of it, they was so full of this business; and one minute you could see everything and every face in that big crowd, and the shovelfuls of dirt sailing up out of the grave, and the next second the dark wiped it all out, and you couldn't see nothing at all.
I don't want to hear no more out of you!” says the duke. I know you _do_ know, because you done it yourself!” But you not only had it in mind to do it, but you _done_ it.” You done it, and you got to _say_ you done it, or--” “wait jest a minute, duke--answer me this one question, honest and fair; if you didn't put the money there, say it, and i'll b'lieve you, and take back everything i said.”
He's a runaway nigger, and they've got him. “well,” he says, “you needn't be afeard no more, becuz they've got him. “it's a good job they got him.” “yes, it is--and i could a had it if i'd been big enough; i see him _first_. “that's me, every time,” says i.
I see i'd got to invent a bar, or forget the name of the one we got aground on--or--now i struck an idea, and fetched it out:  “it warn't the grounding--that didn't keep us back but a little. “not where i hid it i reckon it won't,” i says. Phelps she jumps for him, and says:  “has he come?” He must a come! So she run on:  “lize, hurry up and get him a hot breakfast right away--or did you get your breakfast on the boat?”
“honest injun, i ain't,” i says. He says:  “what! Tom sawyer he says the same. We warn't looking for _you_ at all, but only tom. So i started for town in the wagon, and when i was half-way i see a wagon coming, and sure enough it was tom sawyer, and i stopped and waited till he come along.
“yes,” i says. “my plan is this,” i says. “that's more _like_,” he says. “didn't i _say_ i was going to help steal the nigger?” “why, dis-yer runaway nigger.”
Well, we can't help it; we got to do the best we can with the materials we've got. That's what they all do; and _he's_ got to, too. “what's _that_ got to do with it? I says. “why, to saw jim's leg off,” he says.
Then he says:  “now, the thing to study out is, how to get the things to jim.” Said we'd got to post jim first. “well, then, what we going to do, tom?” He never said nothing. But tom he showed him how unregular it would be, and set down and told him all about our plans, and how we could alter them in a minute any time there was an alarm; and not to be the least afraid, because we would see he got away, _sure_.
I know perfectly well i took it _off_, because--” The rats could a got the candles, and i reckon they did; i wonder they don't walk off with the whole place, the way you're always going to stop their holes and don't do it; and if they warn't fools they'd sleep in your hair, silas--_you'd_ never find it out; but you can't lay the _spoon_ on the rats, and that i know.” “i know, but--” I was a-studying over my text in acts seventeen before breakfast, and i reckon i put it in there, not noticing, meaning to put my testament in, and it must be so, because my testament ain't in; but i'll go and see; and if the testament is where i had it, i'll know i didn't put it in, and that will show that i laid the testament down and took up the spoon, and--” “i declare to gracious ther' _ain't_ but nine!” she says.
“no, sah, thanks to goodness i hain't, mars tom.” “keep what, mars tom?” “de goodness gracious alive, mars tom! “why, i got plenty spring water, mars tom.” But he's got to have it.
“that ain't got nothing to do with it. It was the most undigestible sawdust i ever see; and tom said the same. This letter said: Sometimes it's done one way, sometimes another. But as i was saying, we'd got all the work done now, at last; and we was all pretty much fagged out, too, but mainly jim.
“we can get along without it,” i says. His eyes just blazed; and he says:  “no!--is that so? I says. And then mosey right down the lightning-rod and come along. “you just march into that setting-room and stay there till i come.
“who is your folks?” he says. “oh,” he says. “singular dream,” he says. “why, where ever did you go?” he says. I see my chance; so i skips up and says:  “i'll run right up to town and get him,” i says.
There ain't but one; how we set the runaway nigger free--me and tom.” We _did_ set him free--me and tom. I've knowed him all his life, and so has tom, there. And then she says:  “yes, you _better_ turn y'r head away--i would if i was you, tom.” Why, that ain't _tom_, it's sid; tom's--tom's--why, where is tom?
We had jim out of the chains in no time, and when aunt polly and uncle silas and aunt sally found out how good he helped the doctor nurse tom, they made a heap of fuss over him, and fixed him up prime, and give him all he wanted to eat, and a good time, and nothing to do. I says:  “why, jim?” And we had him up to the sick-room, and had a high talk; and tom give jim forty dollars for being prisoner for us so patient, and doing it up so good, and jim was pleased most to death, and busted out, and says:  “dah, now, huck, what i tell you? --what it was he'd planned to do if the evasion worked all right and he managed to set a nigger free that was already free before? Hadn't when i come away, anyhow.”
