“you mistake me, my dear. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit him if you do not.” “it will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them.”
“how good it was in you, my dear mr. bennet! 2  mr. bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on mr. bingley. “while mary is adjusting her ideas,” he continued, “let us return to mr. bingley.”
3  not all that mrs. bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from her husband any satisfactory description of mr. bingley. “_you_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said mr. darcy, looking at the eldest miss bennet. They found mr. bennet still up.
Miss “he is just what a young man ought to be,” said she, “sensible, good-humoured, lively; and i never saw such happy manners! “i would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone; but i always speak what i think.”
“_you_ began the evening well, charlotte,” said mrs. bennet with civil self-command to miss lucas. Mrs. Lady lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to mrs. bennet.
“what a charming amusement for young people this is, mr. darcy! “your friend performs delightfully,” he continued after a pause, on seeing bingley join the group; “and i doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, mr. darcy.” “miss elizabeth bennet!” repeated miss bingley.
When the clock struck three, elizabeth felt that she must go, and very unwillingly said so. They are wanted in the farm, mr. bennet, are they not?” Mrs. bennet’s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,  “well, jane, who is it from?
“it shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing,” said bingley. “nor i, i am sure,” said miss bingley. “but it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world,” replied darcy.
“removed!” cried bingley. The country is a vast deal pleasanter, is it not, mr. bingley?” What an agreeable man sir william is, mr. bingley, is not he?
But do you always write such charming long letters to her, mr. darcy?” Do not you, darcy?” I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about mr. bingley.
Miss “nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said elizabeth. “mr. darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried elizabeth.
The evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of jane and elizabeth. 12  in consequence of an agreement between the sisters, elizabeth wrote the next morning to their mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for them in the course of the day. But mrs. bennet, who had calculated on her daughters remaining at netherfield till the following tuesday, which would exactly finish jane’s week, could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before.
—‘there, mrs. bennet.’— “he must be an oddity, i think,” said she. This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at once.
Lady The subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect he protested that “he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a person of rank—such affability and condescension, as he had himself experienced from lady catherine. Her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that i am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies.
Such doings discomposed mr. bennet exceedingly. The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation—a readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably, when the sound of horses drew their notice, and darcy and bingley were seen riding down the street. The officer was the very mr. denny concerning whose return from london lydia came to inquire, and he bowed as they passed.
Allowing for the common demands of the game, mr. wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him, though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told—the history of his acquaintance with mr. darcy. Are you much acquainted with mr. darcy?” “oh! no—it is not for _me_ to be driven away by mr. darcy.
17  elizabeth related to jane the next day what had passed between mr. wickham and herself. Jane listened with astonishment and concern; she knew not how to believe that mr. darcy could be so unworthy of mr. bingley’s regard; and yet, it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as wickham. One does not know what to think.”
—“it is _your_ turn to say something now, mr. darcy. I see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of mr. darcy.” “this account then is what he has received from mr. darcy.
And upon elizabeth’s seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about to escape, she added: “lizzy, i _insist_ upon your staying and hearing mr. collins.” You could not make _me_ happy, and i am convinced that i am the last woman in the world who could make you so. Let me do it without further loss of time.
In a doleful voice mrs. bennet began the projected conversation: “oh! mr. collins!” Is it not so, mrs. bennet?” “of mr. collins and lizzy.
Miss I really do not think georgiana darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the affection she inspires in louisa and myself is heightened into something still more interesting, from the hope we dare entertain of her being hereafter our sister. Bingley sees that her brother is in love with you, and wants him to marry miss darcy.
22  the bennets were engaged to dine with the lucases and again during the chief of the day was miss lucas so kind as to listen to mr. collins. The possibility of mr. collins’s fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to elizabeth within the last day or two; but that charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and she could not help crying out:  “engaged to mr. collins! As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, i shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin elizabeth.”
Mr. collins’s return into hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to mrs. bennet. “i leave it to yourself to determine,” said mr. bennet. Lady lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on mrs.
You will hardly bear to be long outdone by jane. There are few people whom i really love, and still fewer of whom i think well. They will ruin your happiness.
Poor jane! They had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister. Oh, sister!
Will you come and see me?” I wish i could see her. I dare say i shall see them soon here.”
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt. I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.” Last christmas you were afraid of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is mercenary.”
When mr. collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed, which certainly was not unseldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on charlotte. “and is this all?” cried elizabeth. But of all the views which his garden, or which the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with the prospect of rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house.
Lady “we never had any governess.” “no governess!
Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment, before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room. She examined into their employments, looked at their work, and advised them to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement of the furniture; or detected the housemaid in negligence; and if she accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it only for the sake of finding out that mrs. collins’s joints of meat were too large for her family. At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of elizabeth after the health of her family.
He now seated himself by her, and talked so agreeably of kent and hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books and music, that elizabeth had never been half so well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of lady catherine herself, as well as of mr. darcy. How does georgiana get on, darcy?” “i am not afraid of you,” said he, smilingly.
“i should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_ of the match,” cried elizabeth. “how very suddenly you all quitted netherfield last november, mr. darcy! Yes, i call it a very easy distance.”
33  more than once did elizabeth, in her ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet mr. darcy. I do not know anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than mr. darcy.” I am joined with him in the guardianship of miss darcy.”
That she should receive an offer of marriage from mr. darcy! Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried to the utmost to speak with composure when she said: But this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw mr. darcy walk into the room.
The first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, i had detached mr. bingley from your sister, and the other, that i had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of mr. wickham. “this, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it as false, you will, i hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards mr. wickham. The situation of your mother’s family, though objectionable, was nothing in comparison to that total want of propriety so frequently, so almost uniformly betrayed by herself, by your three younger sisters, and occasionally even by your father.
After pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to read. From herself to jane—from jane to bingley, her thoughts were in a line which soon brought to her recollection that mr. darcy’s explanation _there_ had appeared very insufficient, and she read it again. Colonel fitzwilliam was no longer an object; she could think only of her letter.
37  the two gentlemen left rosings the next morning, and mr. collins having been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting obeisance, was able to bring home the pleasing intelligence, of their appearing in very good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the melancholy scene so lately gone through at rosings. You must send john with the young ladies, mrs. collins. “oh! your father of course may spare you, if your mother can.
“i know not, miss elizabeth,” said he, “whether mrs. collins has yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us; but i am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for it. In truth i must acknowledge that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, i should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion, while they are sharers of our intimacy at rosings.” He then handed her in, maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at rosings.
“how nicely we are all crammed in,” cried lydia. “what do you think? My aunt phillips wants you so to get husbands, you can’t think.
40  elizabeth’s impatience to acquaint jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome; and at length, resolving to suppress every particular in which her sister was concerned, and preparing her to be surprised, she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between mr. darcy and herself. And poor mr. darcy! What a stroke was this for poor jane!
“i am sure i shall break _mine_,” said lydia. “oh, no!” said elizabeth. “oh, yes!—if one could but go to brighton!
In talking over their route the evening before, mrs. gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again. Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid whether pemberley were not a very fine place? But she had never felt so strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising from so ill-judged a direction of talents; talents, which, rightly used, might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters, even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his wife.
“in what an amiable light does this place him!” thought elizabeth. Mrs. “and is miss darcy as handsome as her brother?” said mrs. gardiner.
They could not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn his character from their own feelings and his servant’s report, without any reference to any other account, the circle in hertfordshire to which he was known would not have recognized it for mr. darcy. Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do. All elizabeth’s anger against him had been long done away; but had she still felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again.
Miss Had miss After sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour without hearing miss bingley’s voice, elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold inquiry after the health of her family.
What i have to say relates to poor lydia. Be so kind as to apologise for us to miss darcy. Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
“but you—how are you?” cried elizabeth. Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to elizabeth. “but does lydia know nothing of this?
“you must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied elizabeth. He was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman’s family. They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others; for who, as lady catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family?
“and have you answered the letter?” cried elizabeth. “and they are really to be married!” cried elizabeth, as soon as they were by themselves. “then it is as i always hoped,” cried jane; “they are married!”
It soon led to another; and mrs. bennet found, with amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his daughter. Mr. gardiner soon wrote again to his brother. When first mr. bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless, for, of course, they were to have a son.
Wickham’s affection for lydia was just what elizabeth had expected to find it; not equal to lydia’s for him. However, i did not hear above one word in ten, for i was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear wickham. —he was to come there with wickham, you know.
She cared for none of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear of leaving wickham. But it was a hope shortly checked by other considerations, and she soon felt that even her vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his affection for her—for a woman who had already refused him—as able to overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with wickham. Brother-in-law of wickham!
“’tis an _etiquette_ i despise,” said he. Darcy, after inquiring of her how mr. and mrs. gardiner did, a question which she could not answer without confusion, said scarcely anything. “could i expect it to be otherwise!” said she.
Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look, which showed her better satisfied with their visitors, than elizabeth. “yes, very indifferent indeed,” said elizabeth, laughingly. “it has been a very agreeable day,” said miss bennet to elizabeth.
Every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to jane. “i am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!” cried jane. “i suspected as much,” replied elizabeth.
“these are heavy misfortunes,” replied elizabeth. After sitting for a moment in silence, she said very stiffly to elizabeth,  “i hope you are well, miss bennet. In this manner lady catherine talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, “i take no leave of you, miss bennet.
Lady This letter is from mr. collins.” “from mr. collins!
“we will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening,” said elizabeth. Such i was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such i might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest elizabeth! “i must ask whether you were surprised?” said elizabeth.
“you are joking, lizzy. “oh, lizzy! it cannot be. Oh, lizzy!
“i am more likely to want more time than courage, elizabeth. Elizabeth will soon be the wife of mr. darcy. Console lady catherine as well as you can.
Miss bingley was very deeply mortified by darcy’s marriage; but as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at pemberley, she dropt all her resentment; was fonder than ever of georgiana, almost as attentive to darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility to elizabeth. Any place would do, of about three or four hundred a year; but however, do not speak to mr. darcy about it, if you had rather not. Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with her two elder sisters.
