“you mistake me, my dear. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit him if you do not.” “it will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them.” “depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, i will visit them all.” It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife.
“how good it was in you, my dear mr. bennet! 2  mr. bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on mr. bingley. “while mary is adjusting her ideas,” he continued, “let us return to mr. bingley.” “we are not in a way to know _what_ mr. bingley likes,” said her mother resentfully, “since we are not to visit.” “aye, so it is,” cried her mother, “and mrs. long does not come back till the day before; so it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for she will not know him herself.”
3  not all that mrs. bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from her husband any satisfactory description of mr. bingley. “_you_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said mr. darcy, looking at the eldest miss bennet. They found mr. bennet still up. “come, darcy,” said he, “i must have you dance. You had much better dance.”
Miss “he is just what a young man ought to be,” said she, “sensible, good-humoured, lively; and i never saw such happy manners! “i would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone; but i always speak what i think.” Between him and darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of great opposition of character. Mrs. hurst and her sister allowed it to be so—but still they admired her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one whom they would not object to know more of.
“_you_ began the evening well, charlotte,” said mrs. bennet with civil self-command to miss lucas. Mrs. Lady lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to mrs. bennet. To be sure that _did_ seem as if he admired her—indeed i rather believe he _did_— One cannot wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour, should think highly of himself.
“what a charming amusement for young people this is, mr. darcy! “your friend performs delightfully,” he continued after a pause, on seeing bingley join the group; “and i doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, mr. darcy.” “miss elizabeth bennet!” repeated miss bingley. She mentioned this to her friend miss lucas. “it will be _her_ turn soon to be teased,” said miss lucas.
When the clock struck three, elizabeth felt that she must go, and very unwillingly said so. They are wanted in the farm, mr. bennet, are they not?” Mrs. bennet’s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out, while her daughter read,  “well, jane, who is it from? “can i have the carriage?” said jane. When breakfast was over they were joined by the sisters; and elizabeth began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and solicitude they showed for jane.
“it shows an affection for her sister that is very pleasing,” said bingley. “nor i, i am sure,” said miss bingley. “but it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world,” replied darcy. What a delightful library you have at pemberley, mr. darcy!” They solaced their wretchedness, however, by duets after supper, while he could find no better relief to his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions that every attention might be paid to the sick lady and her sister.
“removed!” cried bingley. The country is a vast deal pleasanter, is it not, mr. bingley?” What an agreeable man sir william is, mr. bingley, is not he? But that gentleman,” looking at darcy, “seemed to think the country was nothing at all.” “that is exactly what i should have supposed of you,” said elizabeth.
But do you always write such charming long letters to her, mr. darcy?” Do not you, darcy?” I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about mr. bingley. Bingley saw, or suspected enough to be jealous; and her great anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend jane received some assistance from her desire of getting rid of elizabeth. At that moment they were met from another walk by mrs. hurst and elizabeth herself.
Miss “nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said elizabeth. “mr. darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried elizabeth. “_that_ is a failing indeed!” cried elizabeth. “oh! shocking!” cried miss bingley.
The evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of jane and elizabeth. 12  in consequence of an agreement between the sisters, elizabeth wrote the next morning to their mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for them in the course of the day. But mrs. bennet, who had calculated on her daughters remaining at netherfield till the following tuesday, which would exactly finish jane’s week, could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before. Miss bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay, for her jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other. She attracted him more than he liked—and miss bingley was uncivil to _her_, and more teasing than usual to himself.
—‘there, mrs. bennet.’— “he must be an oddity, i think,” said she. This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by his wife and his five daughters at once. “at four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,” said mr. bennet, as he folded up the letter. As for their mother, mr. collins’s letter had done away much of her ill-will, and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which astonished her husband and daughters.
Lady The subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner, and with a most important aspect he protested that “he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a person of rank—such affability and condescension, as he had himself experienced from lady catherine. Her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that i am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies. By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and mr. bennet was glad to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and, when tea was over, glad to invite him to read aloud to the ladies. And what sort of young lady is she?
Such doings discomposed mr. bennet exceedingly. The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation—a readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably, when the sound of horses drew their notice, and darcy and bingley were seen riding down the street. The officer was the very mr. denny concerning whose return from london lydia came to inquire, and he bowed as they passed. Mr. wickham, after a few moments, touched his hat—a salutation which mr. darcy just deigned to return. This was his plan of amends—of atonement—for inheriting their father’s estate; and he thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own part.
Allowing for the common demands of the game, mr. wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him, though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told—the history of his acquaintance with mr. darcy. Are you much acquainted with mr. darcy?” “oh! no—it is not for _me_ to be driven away by mr. darcy. “what sort of girl is miss darcy?” It gives me pain to speak ill of a darcy.
17  elizabeth related to jane the next day what had passed between mr. wickham and herself. Jane listened with astonishment and concern; she knew not how to believe that mr. darcy could be so unworthy of mr. bingley’s regard; and yet, it was not in her nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as wickham. One does not know what to think.” “i beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think.” The happiness anticipated by catherine and lydia depended less on any single event, or any particular person, for though they each, like elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with mr. wickham, he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball was, at any rate, a ball.
—“it is _your_ turn to say something now, mr. darcy. I see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of mr. darcy.” “this account then is what he has received from mr. darcy. “you are not going to introduce yourself to mr. darcy!” What advantage can it be for you to offend mr. darcy?
And upon elizabeth’s seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about to escape, she added: “lizzy, i _insist_ upon your staying and hearing mr. collins.” You could not make _me_ happy, and i am convinced that i am the last woman in the world who could make you so. Let me do it without further loss of time. “i am not now to learn,” replied mr. collins, with a formal wave of the hand, “that it is usual with young ladies to reject the addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second, or even a third time. I do assure you that i am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
In a doleful voice mrs. bennet began the projected conversation: “oh! mr. collins!” Is it not so, mrs. bennet?” “of mr. collins and lizzy. Lizzy declares she will not have mr. collins, and mr. collins begins to say that he will not have lizzy.” “speak to lizzy about it yourself.
Miss I really do not think georgiana darcy has her equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the affection she inspires in louisa and myself is heightened into something still more interesting, from the hope we dare entertain of her being hereafter our sister. Bingley sees that her brother is in love with you, and wants him to marry miss darcy. Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to miss bennet; it came from netherfield. “why will you think so?
22  the bennets were engaged to dine with the lucases and again during the chief of the day was miss lucas so kind as to listen to mr. collins. The possibility of mr. collins’s fancying himself in love with her friend had once occurred to elizabeth within the last day or two; but that charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility as she could encourage him herself, and her astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and she could not help crying out:  “engaged to mr. collins! As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, i shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin elizabeth.” “i see what you are feeling,” replied charlotte. Charlotte assured her friend of her satisfaction in being useful, and that it amply repaid her for the little sacrifice of her time.
Mr. collins’s return into hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to mrs. bennet. “i leave it to yourself to determine,” said mr. bennet. Lady lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on mrs. How anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one’s own daughters, i cannot understand; and all for the sake of mr. collins too! Bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she called at longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was, though mrs. bennet’s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.
You will hardly bear to be long outdone by jane. There are few people whom i really love, and still fewer of whom i think well. They will ruin your happiness. You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of danger security for happiness.” Elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
Poor jane! They had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister. Oh, sister! The lucases are very artful people indeed, sister. Pray, how _violent was_ mr. bingley’s love?”
Will you come and see me?” I wish i could see her. I dare say i shall see them soon here.” But i will endeavour to banish every painful thought, and think only of what will make me happy—your affection, and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and aunt. This letter gave elizabeth some pain; but her spirits returned as she considered that jane would no longer be duped, by the sister at least.
Elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt. I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.” Last christmas you were afraid of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is mercenary.” “if you will only tell me what sort of girl miss king is, i shall know what to think.” The improvement of spending a night in london was added in time, and the plan became perfect as plan could be.
When mr. collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed, which certainly was not unseldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on charlotte. “and is this all?” cried elizabeth. But of all the views which his garden, or which the country or kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with the prospect of rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house. At length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house. We dine at rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home.
Lady “we never had any governess.” “no governess! Five daughters brought up at home without a governess! Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and elizabeth saw much to be pleased with, though she could not be in such raptures as mr. collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost sir lewis de bourgh.
Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment, before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room. She examined into their employments, looked at their work, and advised them to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement of the furniture; or detected the housemaid in negligence; and if she accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it only for the sake of finding out that mrs. collins’s joints of meat were too large for her family. At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of elizabeth after the health of her family. In this quiet way, the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away. The subject was pursued no farther, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away.
He now seated himself by her, and talked so agreeably of kent and hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books and music, that elizabeth had never been half so well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow, as to draw the attention of lady catherine herself, as well as of mr. darcy. How does georgiana get on, darcy?” “i am not afraid of you,” said he, smilingly. _his_ eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity; and that her ladyship, after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for she did not scruple to call out:  “what is that you are saying, fitzwilliam? “pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of,” cried colonel fitzwilliam.
“i should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_ of the match,” cried elizabeth. “how very suddenly you all quitted netherfield last november, mr. darcy! Yes, i call it a very easy distance.” Mr. and mrs. collins have a comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeys—and i am persuaded my friend would not call herself _near_ her family under less than _half_ the present distance.” “if he means to be but little at netherfield, it would be better for the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we might possibly get a settled family there.
33  more than once did elizabeth, in her ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet mr. darcy. I do not know anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than mr. darcy.” I am joined with him in the guardianship of miss darcy.” Their brother is a pleasant gentlemanlike man—he is a great friend of darcy’s.” “do you certainly leave kent on saturday?” said she.
That she should receive an offer of marriage from mr. darcy! Elizabeth felt herself growing more angry every moment; yet she tried to the utmost to speak with composure when she said: But this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw mr. darcy walk into the room. He sat down for a few moments, and then getting up, walked about the room. She tried, however, to compose herself to answer him with patience, when he should have done.
The first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, i had detached mr. bingley from your sister, and the other, that i had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of mr. wickham. “this, madam, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it as false, you will, i hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards mr. wickham. The situation of your mother’s family, though objectionable, was nothing in comparison to that total want of propriety so frequently, so almost uniformly betrayed by herself, by your three younger sisters, and occasionally even by your father. Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?” My objections to the marriage were not merely those which i last night acknowledged to have the utmost force of passion to put aside, in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to my friend as to me.
After pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to read. From herself to jane—from jane to bingley, her thoughts were in a line which soon brought to her recollection that mr. darcy’s explanation _there_ had appeared very insufficient, and she read it again. Colonel fitzwilliam was no longer an object; she could think only of her letter. Neither could she deny the justice of his description of jane. With a strong prejudice against everything he might say, she began his account of what had happened at netherfield.
37  the two gentlemen left rosings the next morning, and mr. collins having been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting obeisance, was able to bring home the pleasing intelligence, of their appearing in very good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the melancholy scene so lately gone through at rosings. You must send john with the young ladies, mrs. collins. “oh! your father of course may spare you, if your mother can. They were excessively sorry to go! “but my father cannot.
“i know not, miss elizabeth,” said he, “whether mrs. collins has yet expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us; but i am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving her thanks for it. In truth i must acknowledge that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, i should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion, while they are sharers of our intimacy at rosings.” He then handed her in, maria followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the ladies at rosings. “but,” he added, “you will of course wish to have your humble respects delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you while you have been here.” Our plain manner of living, our small rooms and few domestics, and the little we see of the world, must make hunsford extremely dull to a young lady like yourself; but i hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension, and that we have done everything in our power to prevent your spending your time unpleasantly.”
“how nicely we are all crammed in,” cried lydia. “what do you think? My aunt phillips wants you so to get husbands, you can’t think. Kitty and me were to spend the day there, and mrs. forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; (by the bye, mrs. forster and me are _such_ friends!) and so she asked the two harringtons to come, but harriet was ill, and so pen was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did? I am glad he is gone.
40  elizabeth’s impatience to acquaint jane with what had happened could no longer be overcome; and at length, resolving to suppress every particular in which her sister was concerned, and preparing her to be surprised, she related to her the next morning the chief of the scene between mr. darcy and herself. And poor mr. darcy! What a stroke was this for poor jane! It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from jane. “but you blame me for having spoken so warmly of wickham?”
“i am sure i shall break _mine_,” said lydia. “oh, no!” said elizabeth. “oh, yes!—if one could but go to brighton! But the gloom of lydia’s prospect was shortly cleared away; for she received an invitation from mrs. forster, the wife of the colonel of the regiment, to accompany her to brighton. We shall have no peace at longbourn if lydia does not go to brighton.
In talking over their route the evening before, mrs. gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again. Accordingly, when she retired at night, she asked the chambermaid whether pemberley were not a very fine place? But she had never felt so strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising from so ill-judged a direction of talents; talents, which, rightly used, might at least have preserved the respectability of his daughters, even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his wife. It was consequently necessary to name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity—to have some other point on which her wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console herself for the present, and prepare for another disappointment. Mr. gardiner would be prevented by business from setting out till a fortnight later in july, and must be in london again within a month, and as that left too short a period for them to go so far, and see so much as they had proposed, or at least to see it with the leisure and comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up the lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour, and, according to the present plan, were to go no farther northwards than derbyshire.
“in what an amiable light does this place him!” thought elizabeth. Mrs. “and is miss darcy as handsome as her brother?” said mrs. gardiner. “his father was an excellent man,” said mrs. gardiner. That he was _surprised_ by the connection was evident; he sustained it, however, with fortitude, and so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with mr. gardiner.
They could not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn his character from their own feelings and his servant’s report, without any reference to any other account, the circle in hertfordshire to which he was known would not have recognized it for mr. darcy. Elizabeth, on her side, had much to do. All elizabeth’s anger against him had been long done away; but had she still felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again. In seeing bingley, her thoughts naturally flew to her sister; and, oh! Nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister.
Miss Had miss After sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour without hearing miss bingley’s voice, elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold inquiry after the health of her family. They must be a great loss to _your_ family.” When darcy returned to the saloon, miss bingley could not help repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to his sister.
What i have to say relates to poor lydia. Be so kind as to apologise for us to miss darcy. Elizabeth was not surprised at it, as jane had written the direction remarkably ill. I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but i hardly know what i have written.” Without allowing herself time for consideration, and scarcely knowing what she felt, elizabeth on finishing this letter instantly seized the other, and opening it with the utmost impatience, read as follows: it had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first.
“but you—how are you?” cried elizabeth. Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to elizabeth. “but does lydia know nothing of this? The collinses will turn us out before he is cold in his grave, and if you are not kind to us, brother, i do not know what we shall do.” “i do not know.
“you must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied elizabeth. He was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman’s family. They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one daughter will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others; for who, as lady catherine herself condescendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family? Mr. gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the longbourn family. “do you suppose them to be in london?”
“and have you answered the letter?” cried elizabeth. “and they are really to be married!” cried elizabeth, as soon as they were by themselves. “then it is as i always hoped,” cried jane; “they are married!” “my dear, dear lydia!” she cried. She will be married!
It soon led to another; and mrs. bennet found, with amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his daughter. Mr. gardiner soon wrote again to his brother. When first mr. bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless, for, of course, they were to have a son. The good news spread quickly through the house, and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood. I will not encourage the impudence of either, by receiving them at longbourn.”
Wickham’s affection for lydia was just what elizabeth had expected to find it; not equal to lydia’s for him. However, i did not hear above one word in ten, for i was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear wickham. —he was to come there with wickham, you know. “only think of its being three months,” she cried, “since i went away; it seems but a fortnight i declare; and yet there have been things enough happened in the time. “well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual; i thought it would never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand, that my uncle and aunt were horrid unpleasant all the time i was with them.
She cared for none of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear of leaving wickham. But it was a hope shortly checked by other considerations, and she soon felt that even her vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his affection for her—for a woman who had already refused him—as able to overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with wickham. Brother-in-law of wickham! She was roused from her seat, and her reflections, by some one’s approach; and before she could strike into another path, she was overtaken by wickham. She was even sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how steadfastly both she and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence subsisted between mr. darcy and herself.
“’tis an _etiquette_ i despise,” said he. Darcy, after inquiring of her how mr. and mrs. gardiner did, a question which she could not answer without confusion, said scarcely anything. “could i expect it to be otherwise!” said she. I don’t know. “this is the consequence, you see, madam, of marrying a daughter,” said elizabeth.
Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look, which showed her better satisfied with their visitors, than elizabeth. “yes, very indifferent indeed,” said elizabeth, laughingly. “it has been a very agreeable day,” said miss bennet to elizabeth. And what do you think she said besides? I will think no more about him.”
Every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to jane. “i am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!” cried jane. “i suspected as much,” replied elizabeth. Why is not everybody as happy?” Mrs. bennet could not give her consent or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked to bingley of nothing else for half an hour; and when mr. bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.
“these are heavy misfortunes,” replied elizabeth. After sitting for a moment in silence, she said very stiffly to elizabeth,  “i hope you are well, miss bennet. In this manner lady catherine talked on, till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, “i take no leave of you, miss bennet. “yes, madam,” said mrs. bennet, delighted to speak to lady catherine. Lady
Lady This letter is from mr. collins.” “from mr. collins! Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from rosings, for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with mr. darcy. If he had been wavering before as to what he should do, which had often seemed likely, the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might settle every doubt, and determine him at once to be as happy as dignity unblemished could make him.
“we will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening,” said elizabeth. Such i was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such i might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest elizabeth! “i must ask whether you were surprised?” said elizabeth. “oh! do not repeat what i then said. Darcy mentioned his letter.
“you are joking, lizzy. “oh, lizzy! it cannot be. Oh, lizzy! I know your disposition, lizzy. Oh! my sweetest lizzy!
“i am more likely to want more time than courage, elizabeth. Elizabeth will soon be the wife of mr. darcy. Console lady catherine as well as you can. Lady “dearest jane!
Miss bingley was very deeply mortified by darcy’s marriage; but as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at pemberley, she dropt all her resentment; was fonder than ever of georgiana, almost as attentive to darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility to elizabeth. Any place would do, of about three or four hundred a year; but however, do not speak to mr. darcy about it, if you had rather not. Kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with her two elder sisters. As for wickham and lydia, their characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of her sisters. Mr. bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
