But, as respects the majority of my corps of veterans, there will be no wrong done, if i characterize them generally as a set of wearisome old souls, who had gathered nothing worth preservation from their varied experience of life. Most persons, owing to causes which i may not have space to hint at, suffer moral detriment from this peculiar mode of life. It is that of the collector, our gallant old general, who, after his brilliant military service, subsequently to which he had ruled over a wild western territory, had come hither, twenty years before, to spend the decline of his varied and honorable life.
The founders of a new colony, whatever utopia of human virtue and happiness they might originally project, have invariably recognized it among their earliest practical necessities to allot a portion of the virgin soil as a cemetery, and another portion as the site of a prison. Before this ugly edifice, and between it and the wheel-track of the street, was a grass-plot, much overgrown with burdock, pigweed, apple-peru, and such unsightly vegetation, which evidently found something congenial in the soil that had so early borne the black flower of civilized society, a prison. [illustration]     [illustration]
It would be greatly for the public behoof, if we women, being of mature age and church-members in good repute, should have the handling of such malefactresses as this hester prynne. Hush, now, gossips! for the lock is turning in the prison-door, and here comes mistress prynne herself.” Meagre, indeed, and cold was the sympathy that a transgressor might look for, from such bystanders, at the scaffold.
At his arrival in the market-place, and some time before she saw him, the stranger had bent his eyes on hester prynne. “i pray you, good sir,” said he, “who is this woman? “hearken unto me, hester prynne!” said the voice.
“i have greatly wronged thee,” murmured hester. “i will keep thy secret, as i have his,” said hester. How is it, hester?
Could they be other than the insidious whispers of the bad angel, who would fain have persuaded the struggling woman, as yet only half his victim, that the outward guise of purity was but a lie, and that, if truth were everywhere to be shown, a scarlet letter would blaze forth on many a bosom besides hester prynne’s? Clergymen paused in the street to address words of exhortation, that brought a crowd, with its mingled grin and frown, around the poor, sinful woman. Her prison-door was thrown open, and she came forth into the sunshine, which, falling on all alike, seemed, to her sick and morbid heart, as if meant for no other purpose than to reveal the scarlet letter on her breast.
Her pearl!— Throughout all, however, there was a trait of passion, a certain depth of hue, which she never lost; and if, in any of her changes, she had grown fainter or paler, she would have ceased to be herself,—it would have been no longer pearl! Above all, the warfare of hester’s spirit, at that epoch, was perpetuated in pearl.
“do not cry, dear little pearl! “is the worshipful governor bellingham within?” inquired hester. “no, my little pearl!” said her mother.
Art thou a christian child,—ha? I will not lose the child!”] I will not lose the child!
This learned stranger was exemplary, as regarded, at least, the outward forms of a religious life, and, early after his arrival, had chosen for his spiritual guide the reverend mr. dimmesdale. In this manner, the mysterious old roger chillingworth became the medical adviser of the reverend mr. dimmesdale. A large number—and many of these were persons of such sober sense and practical observation that their opinions would have been valuable, in other matters—affirmed that roger chillingworth’s aspect had undergone a remarkable change while he had dwelt in town, and especially since his abode with mr. dimmesdale.
“and wherefore?” rejoined the physician. “yet some men bury their secrets thus,” observed the calm physician. Old roger chillingworth, throughout life, had been calm in temperament, kindly, though not of warm affections, but ever, and in all his relations with the world, a pure and upright man.
His intellectual gifts, his moral perceptions, his power of experiencing and communicating emotion, were kept in a state of preternatural activity by the prick and anguish of his daily life. It was his genuine impulse to adore the truth, and to reckon all things shadow-like, and utterly devoid of weight or value, that had not its divine essence as the life within their life. Had he once found power to smile, and wear a face of gayety, there would have been no such man!
“whence come you, hester?” asked the minister. “i tell thee, my soul shivers at him!” muttered the minister again. “dost thou mock me now?” said the minister.
So it seemed to be with hester. As is apt to be the case when a person stands out in any prominence before the community, and, at the same time, interferes neither with public nor individual interests and convenience, a species of general regard had ultimately grown up in reference to hester prynne. Some attribute had departed from her, the permanence of which had been essential to keep her a woman.
“it lies not in the pleasure of the magistrates to take off this badge,” calmly replied hester. Since that day, no man is so near to him as you. “all this, and more,” said hester.
“pearl! Little pearl! But then the elf-child sighed, and gave up her sport; because it grieved her to have done harm to a little being that was as wild as the sea-breeze, or as wild as pearl herself.
Didst thou ever meet the black man, mother?” Is it true, mother? “wilt thou let me be at peace, if i once tell thee?” asked her mother.
“hester! “the people reverence thee,” said hester. “you wrong yourself in this,” said hester, gently.
“our little pearl! I have even been afraid of little pearl!” Pearl!
“thou wilt love her dearly,” repeated hester prynne, as she and the minister sat watching little pearl. “i remember it; and so shall little pearl. There was both truth and error in the impression; the child and mother were estranged, but through hester’s fault, not pearl’s.
In truth, nothing short of a total change of dynasty and moral code, in that interior kingdom, was adequate to account for the impulses now communicated to the unfortunate and startled minister. “ha, ha, ha!” cackled the old witch-lady, still nodding her high head-dress at the minister. The wretched minister!
“he remembers thee a little babe, my child,” answered hester. “they wait to see the procession pass,” said hester. It was as hester said, in regard to the unwonted jollity that brightened the faces of the people.
“now, what mortal imagination could conceive it!” whispered the old lady, confidentially, to hester. “fie, woman, fie!” cried the old lady, shaking her finger at hester. Pearl either saw and responded to her mother’s feelings, or herself felt the remoteness and intangibility that had fallen around the minister.
The street and the market-place absolutely babbled, from side to side, with applauses of the minister. “thanks be to him who hath led me hither!” answered the minister. “may god forgive thee!” said the minister.
Others, again,—and those best able to appreciate the minister’s peculiar sensibility, and the wonderful operation of his spirit upon the body,—whispered their belief, that the awful symbol was the effect of the ever-active tooth of remorse, gnawing from the inmost heart outwardly, and at last manifesting heaven’s dreadful judgment by the visible presence of the letter. Neither, by their report, had his dying words acknowledged, nor even remotely implied, any, the slightest connection, on his part, with the guilt for which hester prynne had so long worn the scarlet letter. At old roger chillingworth’s decease, (which took place within the year,) and by his last will and testament, of which governor bellingham and the reverend mr. wilson were executors, he bequeathed a very considerable amount of property, both here and in england, to little pearl, the daughter of hester prynne.
