But, as respects the majority of my corps of veterans, there will be no wrong done, if i characterize them generally as a set of wearisome old souls, who had gathered nothing worth preservation from their varied experience of life. Most persons, owing to causes which i may not have space to hint at, suffer moral detriment from this peculiar mode of life. It is that of the collector, our gallant old general, who, after his brilliant military service, subsequently to which he had ruled over a wild western territory, had come hither, twenty years before, to spend the decline of his varied and honorable life. But i never considered it as other than a transitory life. The moment when a man’s head drops off is seldom or never, i am inclined to think, precisely the most agreeable of his life.
The founders of a new colony, whatever utopia of human virtue and happiness they might originally project, have invariably recognized it among their earliest practical necessities to allot a portion of the virgin soil as a cemetery, and another portion as the site of a prison. Before this ugly edifice, and between it and the wheel-track of the street, was a grass-plot, much overgrown with burdock, pigweed, apple-peru, and such unsightly vegetation, which evidently found something congenial in the soil that had so early borne the black flower of civilized society, a prison. [illustration]     [illustration] Certain it is, that, some fifteen or twenty years after the settlement of the town, the wooden jail was already marked with weather-stains and other indications of age, which gave a yet darker aspect to its beetle-browed and gloomy front. I.  the prison-door.
It would be greatly for the public behoof, if we women, being of mature age and church-members in good repute, should have the handling of such malefactresses as this hester prynne. Hush, now, gossips! for the lock is turning in the prison-door, and here comes mistress prynne herself.” Meagre, indeed, and cold was the sympathy that a transgressor might look for, from such bystanders, at the scaffold. She bore in her arms a child, a baby of some three months old, who winked and turned aside its little face from the too vivid light of day; because its existence, heretofore, had brought it acquainted only with the gray twilight of a dungeon, or other darksome apartment of the prison. She had dark and abundant hair, so glossy that it threw off the sunshine with a gleam, and a face which, besides being beautiful from regularity of feature and richness of complexion, had the impressiveness belonging to a marked brow and deep black eyes.
At his arrival in the market-place, and some time before she saw him, the stranger had bent his eyes on hester prynne. “i pray you, good sir,” said he, “who is this woman? “hearken unto me, hester prynne!” said the voice. “wondrous strength and generosity of a woman’s heart! She will not speak!”
“i have greatly wronged thee,” murmured hester. “i will keep thy secret, as i have his,” said hester. How is it, hester? “dost thou know me so little, hester prynne? The medicine is potent for good; and were it my child,—yea, mine own, as well as thine!—
Could they be other than the insidious whispers of the bad angel, who would fain have persuaded the struggling woman, as yet only half his victim, that the outward guise of purity was but a lie, and that, if truth were everywhere to be shown, a scarlet letter would blaze forth on many a bosom besides hester prynne’s? Clergymen paused in the street to address words of exhortation, that brought a crowd, with its mingled grin and frown, around the poor, sinful woman. Her prison-door was thrown open, and she came forth into the sunshine, which, falling on all alike, seemed, to her sick and morbid heart, as if meant for no other purpose than to reveal the scarlet letter on her breast. Thus the young and pure would be taught to look at her, with the scarlet letter flaming on her breast,—at her, the child of honorable parents,—at her, the mother of a babe, that would hereafter be a woman,—at her, who had once been innocent,—as the figure, the body, the reality of sin. The exception indicated the ever-relentless rigor with which society frowned upon her sin.
Her pearl!— Throughout all, however, there was a trait of passion, a certain depth of hue, which she never lost; and if, in any of her changes, she had grown fainter or paler, she would have ceased to be herself,—it would have been no longer pearl! Above all, the warfare of hester’s spirit, at that epoch, was perpetuated in pearl. How strange it seemed to the sad woman, as she watched the growth, and the beauty that became every day more brilliant, and the intelligence that threw its quivering sunshine over the tiny features of this child! It was a look so intelligent, yet inexplicable, so perverse, sometimes so malicious, but generally accompanied by a wild flow of spirits, that hester could not help questioning, at such moments, whether pearl were a human child.
“do not cry, dear little pearl! “is the worshipful governor bellingham within?” inquired hester. “no, my little pearl!” said her mother. “hush, child, hush!” said her mother, earnestly. It had reached her ears, that there was a design on the part of some of the leading inhabitants, cherishing the more rigid order of principles in religion and government, to deprive her of her child.
Art thou a christian child,—ha? I will not lose the child!”] I will not lose the child! And, moreover, is there not a quality of awful sacredness in the relation between this mother and this child?” “i feared the woman had no better thought than to make a mountebank of her child!”
This learned stranger was exemplary, as regarded, at least, the outward forms of a religious life, and, early after his arrival, had chosen for his spiritual guide the reverend mr. dimmesdale. In this manner, the mysterious old roger chillingworth became the medical adviser of the reverend mr. dimmesdale. A large number—and many of these were persons of such sober sense and practical observation that their opinions would have been valuable, in other matters—affirmed that roger chillingworth’s aspect had undergone a remarkable change while he had dwelt in town, and especially since his abode with mr. dimmesdale. He listened in silence, and finally promised to confer with the physician. “good men ever interpret themselves too meanly,” said the physician.
“and wherefore?” rejoined the physician. “yet some men bury their secrets thus,” observed the calm physician. Old roger chillingworth, throughout life, had been calm in temperament, kindly, though not of warm affections, but ever, and in all his relations with the world, a pure and upright man. “no!—not to thee!—not to an earthly physician!” cried mr. dimmesdale, passionately, and turning his eyes, full and bright, and with a kind of fierceness, on old roger chillingworth. “that, good sir, is but a fantasy of yours,” replied the minister.
His intellectual gifts, his moral perceptions, his power of experiencing and communicating emotion, were kept in a state of preternatural activity by the prick and anguish of his daily life. It was his genuine impulse to adore the truth, and to reckon all things shadow-like, and utterly devoid of weight or value, that had not its divine essence as the life within their life. Had he once found power to smile, and wear a face of gayety, there would have been no such man! More than once, he had cleared his throat, and drawn in the long, deep, and tremulous breath, which, when sent forth again, would come burdened with the black secret of his soul. He became, thenceforth, not a spectator only, but a chief actor, in the poor minister’s interior world.
“whence come you, hester?” asked the minister. “i tell thee, my soul shivers at him!” muttered the minister again. “dost thou mock me now?” said the minister. “how knewest thou that i was here?” asked the minister, fearfully. It was immediately responded to by a light, airy, childish laugh, in which, with a thrill of the heart,—but he knew not whether of exquisite pain, or pleasure as acute,—he recognized the tones of little pearl.
So it seemed to be with hester. As is apt to be the case when a person stands out in any prominence before the community, and, at the same time, interferes neither with public nor individual interests and convenience, a species of general regard had ultimately grown up in reference to hester prynne. Some attribute had departed from her, the permanence of which had been essential to keep her a woman. Little accustomed, in her long seclusion from society, to measure her ideas of right and wrong by any standard external to herself, hester saw—or seemed to see—that there lay a responsibility upon her, in reference to the clergyman, which she owed to no other, nor to the whole world besides. She assumed a freedom of speculation, then common enough on the other side of the atlantic, but which our forefathers, had they known it, would have held to be a deadlier crime than that stigmatized by the scarlet letter.
“it lies not in the pleasure of the magistrates to take off this badge,” calmly replied hester. Since that day, no man is so near to him as you. “all this, and more,” said hester. “and now, what wouldst thou with me touching this man?” “i must reveal the secret,” answered hester, firmly.
“pearl! Little pearl! But then the elf-child sighed, and gave up her sport; because it grieved her to have done harm to a little being that was as wild as the sea-breeze, or as wild as pearl herself. As the last touch to her mermaid’s garb, pearl took some eel-grass, and imitated, as best she could, on her own bosom, the decoration with which she was so familiar on her mother’s. “i wonder if mother will ask me what it means?” thought pearl.
Didst thou ever meet the black man, mother?” Is it true, mother? “wilt thou let me be at peace, if i once tell thee?” asked her mother. “once in my life i met the black man!” said her mother. “wilt thou go and play, child?” repeated her mother.
“hester! “the people reverence thee,” said hester. “you wrong yourself in this,” said hester, gently. Thou and i, hester, never did so!” “think for me, hester!
“our little pearl! I have even been afraid of little pearl!” Pearl! Pearl!” She is a strange child!
“thou wilt love her dearly,” repeated hester prynne, as she and the minister sat watching little pearl. “i remember it; and so shall little pearl. There was both truth and error in the impression; the child and mother were estranged, but through hester’s fault, not pearl’s. “i have a strange fancy,” observed the sensitive minister, “that this brook is the boundary between two worlds, and that thou canst never meet thy pearl again. In the brook, again, was the fantastic beauty of the image, with its reflected frown, its pointed finger, and imperious gesture, giving emphasis to the aspect of little pearl.
In truth, nothing short of a total change of dynasty and moral code, in that interior kingdom, was adequate to account for the impulses now communicated to the unfortunate and startled minister. “ha, ha, ha!” cackled the old witch-lady, still nodding her high head-dress at the minister. The wretched minister! Not to speak of the clergyman’s health, so inadequate to sustain the hardships of a forest life, his native gifts, his culture, and his entire development, would secure him a home only in the midst of civilization and refinement; the higher the state, the more delicately adapted to it the man. Satan, that afternoon, had surely led the poor young girl away from her mother’s side, and thrown her into the pathway of this sorely tempted, or—shall we not rather say?—this lost and desperate man.
“he remembers thee a little babe, my child,” answered hester. “they wait to see the procession pass,” said hester. It was as hester said, in regard to the unwonted jollity that brightened the faces of the people. “wherefore have all the people left their work to-day? “think not now of the minister, but look about thee, and see how cheery is everybody’s face to-day.
“now, what mortal imagination could conceive it!” whispered the old lady, confidentially, to hester. “fie, woman, fie!” cried the old lady, shaking her finger at hester. Pearl either saw and responded to her mother’s feelings, or herself felt the remoteness and intangibility that had fallen around the minister. But this minister! “what is it, good mistress hibbins?” eagerly asked little pearl.
The street and the market-place absolutely babbled, from side to side, with applauses of the minister. “thanks be to him who hath led me hither!” answered the minister. “may god forgive thee!” said the minister. Hester, i am a dying man. Come, my little pearl!”
Others, again,—and those best able to appreciate the minister’s peculiar sensibility, and the wonderful operation of his spirit upon the body,—whispered their belief, that the awful symbol was the effect of the ever-active tooth of remorse, gnawing from the inmost heart outwardly, and at last manifesting heaven’s dreadful judgment by the visible presence of the letter. Neither, by their report, had his dying words acknowledged, nor even remotely implied, any, the slightest connection, on his part, with the guilt for which hester prynne had so long worn the scarlet letter. At old roger chillingworth’s decease, (which took place within the year,) and by his last will and testament, of which governor bellingham and the reverend mr. wilson were executors, he bequeathed a very considerable amount of property, both here and in england, to little pearl, the daughter of hester prynne. So said hester prynne, and glanced her sad eyes downward at the scarlet letter. But, in no long time after the physician’s death, the wearer of the scarlet letter disappeared, and pearl along with her.
