Book the first--recalled to life
There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a plain face, on the throne of england; there were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face, on the throne of france. Spiritual revelations were conceded to england at that favoured period, as at this. Mrs. southcott had recently attained her five-and-twentieth blessed birthday, of whom a prophetic private in the life guards had heralded the sublime appearance by announcing that arrangements were made for the swallowing up of london and westminster. Daring burglaries by armed men, and highway robberies, took place in the capital itself every night; families were publicly cautioned not to go out of town without removing their furniture to upholsterers' warehouses for security; the highwayman in the dark was a city tradesman in the light, and, being recognised and challenged by his fellow-tradesman whom he stopped in his character of “the captain,” gallantly shot him through the head and rode away; the mail was waylaid by seven robbers, and the guard shot three dead, and then got shot dead himself by the other four, “in consequence of the failure of his ammunition:” after which the mail was robbed in peace; that magnificent potentate, the lord mayor of london, was made to stand and deliver on turnham green, by one highwayman, who despoiled the illustrious creature in sight of all his retinue; prisoners in london gaols fought battles with their turnkeys, and the majesty of the law fired blunderbusses in among them, loaded with rounds of shot and ball; thieves snipped off diamond crosses from the necks of noble lords at court drawing-rooms; musketeers went into st. giles's, to search for contraband goods, and the mob fired on the musketeers, and the musketeers fired on the mob, and nobody thought any of these occurrences much out of the common way. Environed by them, while the woodman and the farmer worked unheeded, those two of the large jaws, and those other two of the plain and the fair faces, trod with stir enough, and carried their divine rights with a high hand.
(“i don't like jerry's voice, if it is jerry,” growled the guard to himself. It's not long, you see, guard. Two other passengers, besides the one, were plodding up the hill by the side of the mail. The pace was suddenly checked, and, with much splashing and floundering, a man's voice called from the mist, “is that the dover mail?” “_is_ that the dover mail?”
But, though the bank was almost always with him, and though the coach (in a confused way, like the presence of pain under an opiate) was always with him, there was another current of impression that never ceased to run, all through the night. The answer was always the same: “almost eighteen years.” Yet even when his eyes were opened on the mist and rain, on the moving patch of light from the lamps, and the hedge at the roadside retreating by jerks, the night shadows outside the coach would fall into the train of the night shadows within. “almost eighteen years.” To be buried alive for eighteen years!”
The tide will serve pretty nicely at about two in the afternoon, sir. Bed, sir?” “and then breakfast, sir? Yes, sir. That way, sir, if you please.
All the people within reach had suspended their business, or their idleness, to run to the spot and drink the wine. The wine-shop was a corner shop, better than most others in its appearance and degree, and the master of the wine-shop had stood outside it, in a yellow waistcoat and green breeches, looking on at the struggle for the lost wine. Other company were there: two playing cards, two playing dominoes, three standing by the counter lengthening out a short supply of wine. “how goes it, jacques?” said one of these three to monsieur defarge. “every drop, jacques,” answered monsieur defarge.
“you have a visitor, you see,” said monsieur defarge. “come!” said defarge. Mr. lorry took it in his hand. I have had a pattern in my hand.” “and the maker's name?” said defarge.
Any one of these partners would have disinherited his son on the question of rebuilding tellson's. But indeed, at that time, putting to death was a recipe much in vogue with all trades and professions, and not least of all with tellson's. “worth no more than that,” repeated mr. cruncher. His surname was cruncher, and on the youthful occasion of his renouncing by proxy the works of darkness, in the easterly parish church of hounsditch, he had received the added appellation of jerry. “they only come from the heart, jerry.
“that's quartering,” said jerry. “it's the damp, sir, what settles on my chest and voice,” said jerry. “blest if i know,” said jerry. “blest if i know that either,” said jerry. “oh! they'll find him guilty,” said the other.
Ever borrow money of the prisoner? “mr. lorry, look upon the prisoner. “mr. lorry, look again upon the prisoner. “mr. lorry, look once more upon the prisoner. Had you any conversation with the prisoner?”
He still had his wig and gown on, and he said, squaring himself at his late client to that degree that he squeezed the innocent mr. lorry clean out of the group: “i am glad to have brought you off with honour, mr. darnay. Men of business may speak to mr. darnay now?” “if you knew what a conflict goes on in the business mind, when the business mind is divided between good-natured impulse and business appearances, you would be amused, mr. darnay.” Carton, who smelt of port wine, and did not appear to be quite sober, laughed then, and turned to darnay: “do you feel, yet, that you belong to this terrestrial scheme again, mr. darnay?”
“you are a little late, memory,” said stryver. “and now we have done, sydney, fill a bumper of punch,” said mr. stryver. “how have i done what i have done?” said stryver; “how do i do what i do?” “you have had your bottle, i perceive, sydney.” “you and your luck, sydney!
“nothing to boast of,” said miss pross. “indeed?”  “ah! indeed!” said miss pross. “i don't want dozens of people who are not at all worthy of ladybird, to come here looking after her,” said miss pross. “hundreds,” said miss pross. And it's really very hard,” said miss pross.
The text of his order (altered from the original by only a pronoun, which is not much) ran: “the earth and the fulness thereof are mine, saith monseigneur.” For, the rooms, though a beautiful scene to look at, and adorned with every device of decoration that the taste and skill of the time could achieve, were, in truth, not a sound business; considered with any reference to the scarecrows in the rags and nightcaps elsewhere (and not so far off, either, but that the watching towers of notre dame, almost equidistant from the two extremes, could see them both), they would have been an exceedingly uncomfortable business--if that could have been anybody's business, at the house of monseigneur. Doctors who made great fortunes out of dainty remedies for imaginary disorders that never existed, smiled upon their courtly patients in the ante-chambers of monseigneur. Projectors who had discovered every kind of remedy for the little evils with which the state was touched, except the remedy of setting to work in earnest to root out a single sin, poured their distracting babble into any ears they could lay hold of, at the reception of monseigneur. Unbelieving philosophers who were remodelling the world with words, and making card-towers of babel to scale the skies with, talked with unbelieving chemists who had an eye on the transmutation of metals, at this wonderful gathering accumulated by monseigneur.
“your clemency, monseigneur! “with your gracious permission, that was the wonder of it, monseigneur. “it is you, monseigneur! “monseigneur. “he has paid all, monseigneur.
“thank you,” said the marquis--very sweetly indeed. “death has done that!” said the marquis. “yes.”  “yes,” said the marquis. “yes,” repeated the marquis. It lay back on the pillow of monsieur the marquis.
“i am obliged to them for their interest in the matter,” he answered, a little coldly as to them, though very warmly as to the doctor. Dear doctor “charles darnay! It is very hard for me to hear her spoken of in that tone of yours, charles darnay.” “or both,” said darnay.
Your manners have been of that silent and sullen and hangdog kind, that, upon my life and soul, i have been ashamed of you, sydney!” Now think of it, sydney.” “i'll think of it,” said sydney. “now you know all about it, syd,” said mr. stryver. “are you mixing that other bowl of punch?” said
“halloa!” said mr. stryver. The discreet mr. lorry said, in a sample tone of the voice he would recommend under the circumstances, “how do you do, mr. stryver? “am i not prosperous?” asked stryver. “why?” said stryver. Mr. lorry glanced at the distant house, and glanced at the angry stryver.
The fellow of no delicacy   if sydney carton ever shone anywhere, he certainly never shone in the house of doctor manette. He knew her to be so, without looking at her, and said:  “pray forgive me, miss manette. “entreat me to believe it no more, miss manette. “be comforted!” he said, “i am not worth such feeling, miss manette. “i fear you are not well, mr. carton!”
“hooroar, father!” cried young jerry. “was he a spy?” asked mr. cruncher. “yes, jerry.” It _is_ yes, jerry. You may say yes, jerry.”
There had been earlier drinking than usual in the wine-shop of monsieur defarge. This had been the third morning in succession, on which there had been early drinking at the wine-shop of monsieur defarge. “good day, gentlemen!” said monsieur defarge. “no matter, the number,” said defarge. “go on, jacques,” said defarge.
“but my dear!” began defarge. “it does not take a long time to strike a man with lightning,” said defarge. “a long time, i suppose,” said defarge. It was remarkable; but, the taste of saint antoine seemed to be decidedly opposed to a rose on the head-dress of madame defarge. “--here is my husband!” said madame defarge.
“you are happy, my dear father?” “and i am very happy to-night, dear father. “if i could hope _that_, my father!--” Whether it was a son who would some day avenge his father. “my father!
Well; but don't cry,” said the gentle mr. lorry. “i am not crying,” said miss pross; “_you_ are.” “i, my pross?” From miss pross. Dear, dear, dear!
If the impression were not produced by a real corresponding and sufficient cause, how came he, jarvis lorry, there? “now, as to the future,” hinted mr. lorry. I am thankful!” said mr. lorry. “you do not find it easy to advise me?” said mr. lorry. “be explicit,” said the doctor.
He was not improved in habits, or in looks, or in manner; but there was a certain rugged air of fidelity about him, which was new to the observation of charles darnay. I thank you, darnay. “i don't know that you 'never will.'” It would satisfy me, i dare say, to know that i had it.” But i think--i know--he does.”
“show me the north tower!” said defarge. “what is the meaning of one hundred and five, north tower?” asked defarge. They found it surging and tossing, in quest of defarge himself. “see defarge!” Work, jacques one, jacques two, jacques one thousand, jacques two thousand, jacques five-and-twenty
O mother of god, this foulon! I swear on my knees, on these stones, to avenge you on foulon! Madame defarge sat observing it, with such suppressed approval as was to be desired in the leader of the saint antoine women. Instantly madame defarge's knife was in her girdle; the drum was beating in the streets, as if it and a drummer had flown together by magic; and the vengeance, uttering terrific shrieks, and flinging her arms about her head like all the forty furies at once, was tearing from house to house, rousing the women. Foulon who told the starving people they might eat grass!
“to-night?” said the mender of roads. He and the mender of roads sat on the heap of stones looking silently at one another, with the hail driving in between them like a pigmy charge of bayonets, until the sky began to clear over the village. About two leagues beyond the summit of that hill above the village.” The mender of roads went home, with the dust going on before him according to the set of the wind, and was soon at the fountain, squeezing himself in among the lean kine brought there to drink, and appearing even to whisper to them in his whispering to all the village. “it is the fashion,” growled the man.
That i am too old?” said mr. lorry. You are a pretty fellow to object and advise!” exclaimed mr. lorry. “how i admire the gallantry of your youthful spirit, mr. lorry.” “will you take charge of the letter?” said mr. lorry. He walked to and fro, with thoughts very busy, until it was time to return to tellson's and take leave of mr. lorry.
“i have no choice,” said charles darnay. “just heaven!” exclaimed darnay. “but never by me, citizen defarge.” Apart from the personal discomfort of being so attended, and apart from such considerations of present danger as arose from one of the patriots being chronically drunk, and carrying his musket very recklessly, charles darnay did not allow the restraint that was laid upon him to awaken any serious fears in his breast; for, he reasoned with himself that it could have no reference to the merits of an individual case that was not yet stated, and of representations, confirmable by the prisoner in the abbaye, that were not yet made. “yours,” said the gaoler.
“don't look!” cried mr. lorry. The soldiers' swords are sharpened there,” said mr. lorry. Lucie! “your husband, lucie?” Charles out of all danger; i told lucie so.
“yes,” returned defarge. She stopped in the act of putting the note in her bosom, and, with her hands yet at her neck, looked terrified at madame defarge. I believe,” said mr. lorry, rather halting in his reassuring words, as the stony manner of all the three impressed itself upon him more and more, “i state the case, citizen defarge?” “it is enough, my husband,” said madame defarge. “surely it will release him!” said madame defarge.
There was no pause, no pity, no peace, no interval of relenting rest, no measurement of time. Silent, humane, indispensable in hospital and prison, using his art equally among assassins and victims, he was a man apart. Now that this was changed, and he knew himself to be invested through that old trial with forces to which they both looked for charles's ultimate safety and deliverance, he became so far exalted by the change, that he took the lead and direction, and required them as the weak, to trust to him as the strong. The name of the strong man of old scripture had descended to the chief functionary who worked it; but, so armed, he was stronger than his namesake, and blinder, and tore away the gates of god's own temple every day. It hushed the eloquent, struck down the powerful, abolished the beautiful and good.
During all that time lucie was never sure, from hour to hour, but that the guillotine would strike off her husband's head next day. “o show me the place, my father, and i will go there every day.” When it was not too wet or inclement for her child to be with her, they went together; at other times she was alone; but, she never missed a single day. Everything had its appointed place and its appointed time. He always resolutely answered: “nothing can happen to him without my knowledge, and i know that i can save him, lucie.”
He also referred with confidence to the citizen's letter, which had been taken from him at the barrier, but which he did not doubt would be found among the papers then before the president. “charles evremonde, called darnay!” Next day, fifteen prisoners were put to the bar before charles darnay's name was called. Citizen gabelle hinted, with infinite delicacy and politeness, that in the pressure of business imposed on the tribunal by the multitude of enemies of the republic with which it had to deal, he had been slightly overlooked in his prison of the abbaye--in fact, had rather passed out of the tribunal's patriotic remembrance--until three days ago; when he had been summoned before it, and had been set at liberty on the jury's declaring themselves satisfied that the accusation against him was answered, as to himself, by the surrender of the citizen evremonde, called darnay. It was nothing that the decree bore date since his return to france.
Doctor manette, whom this visitation had so turned into stone, that he stood with the lamp in his hand, as if he were a statue made to hold it, moved after these words were spoken, put the lamp down, and confronting the speaker, and taking him, not ungently, by the loose front of his red woollen shirt, said:  “you know him, you have said. “we all know you, citizen doctor,” said the other three. Who moved uneasily on his feet, rubbed his beard a little, and at length said:  “well! “who's he?” said miss pross. “for gracious sake, don't talk about liberty; we have quite enough of that,” said miss pross.
I wish you had a better employed brother than mr. barsad. And gradually, what i had done at random, seemed to shape itself into a purpose, mr. barsad.” “you apprehend me very clearly, mr. barsad. “mr. barsad.”  “barsad?” repeated the old gentleman, “barsad? When was it done, mr. barsad?”
“i never said it would.” “i forgot it,” he said. I didn't quite mean what i said.” “jerry,” said mr. lorry. And wot little a man did get, would never prosper with him, mr. lorry.
“'she has a husband, a father, and a brother?'  “'a brother.'  “'i do not address her brother?' “'do you doubt them?' asked the younger brother. They continued to be uttered in their regular succession, with the cry, 'my husband, my father, and my brother!' “'he is not here,' i said, supporting the boy, and thinking that he referred to the brother. They were always 'my husband, my father, and my brother!
Only her father and mr. lorry were with her. O, look at her, dear carton! He will perish: there is no real hope,” echoed carton. My parting blessing on my love. He bent over the child, and laid her blooming cheek against his face.
“no!” protested defarge. “it is so,” assented defarge. “it is so,” assented defarge again. “it is so,” assented defarge once more. They are in danger of denunciation by madame defarge.
He never thought of carton. The door was quickly opened and closed, and there stood before him face to face, quiet, intent upon him, with the light of a smile on his features, and a cautionary finger on his lip, sydney carton. “carton! Dear carton! “i know it well,” answered carton.
“where could you wait for me?” asked miss pross. “by the cathedral door,” said miss pross. The having originated a precaution which was already in course of execution, was a great relief to miss pross. “we are alone at the top of a high house in a solitary courtyard, we are not likely to be heard, and i pray for bodily strength to keep you here, while every minute you are here is worth a hundred thousand guineas to my darling,” said miss pross. “i don't hear you,” said miss pross.
“i see the lives for which i lay down my life, peaceful, useful, prosperous and happy, in that england which i shall see no more. So used are the regular inhabitants of the houses to the spectacle, that in many windows there are no people, and in some the occupation of the hands is not so much as suspended, while the eyes survey the faces in the tumbrils. The vengeance, stamping her foot in the chair, “and here are the tumbrils! The leading curiosity is, to know which is he; he stands at the back of the tumbril with his head bent down, to converse with a mere girl who sits on the side of the cart, and holds his hand. If they move him at all, it is only to a quiet smile, as he shakes his hair a little more loosely about his face.
