Book the first--recalled to life
There were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a plain face, on the throne of england; there were a king with a large jaw and a queen with a fair face, on the throne of france. Spiritual revelations were conceded to england at that favoured period, as at this. Mrs. southcott had recently attained her five-and-twentieth blessed birthday, of whom a prophetic private in the life guards had heralded the sublime appearance by announcing that arrangements were made for the swallowing up of london and westminster.
(“i don't like jerry's voice, if it is jerry,” growled the guard to himself. It's not long, you see, guard. Two other passengers, besides the one, were plodding up the hill by the side of the mail.
But, though the bank was almost always with him, and though the coach (in a confused way, like the presence of pain under an opiate) was always with him, there was another current of impression that never ceased to run, all through the night. The answer was always the same: “almost eighteen years.” Yet even when his eyes were opened on the mist and rain, on the moving patch of light from the lamps, and the hedge at the roadside retreating by jerks, the night shadows outside the coach would fall into the train of the night shadows within.
The tide will serve pretty nicely at about two in the afternoon, sir. Bed, sir?” “and then breakfast, sir?
All the people within reach had suspended their business, or their idleness, to run to the spot and drink the wine. The wine-shop was a corner shop, better than most others in its appearance and degree, and the master of the wine-shop had stood outside it, in a yellow waistcoat and green breeches, looking on at the struggle for the lost wine. Other company were there: two playing cards, two playing dominoes, three standing by the counter lengthening out a short supply of wine.
“you have a visitor, you see,” said monsieur defarge. “come!” said defarge. Mr. lorry took it in his hand.
Any one of these partners would have disinherited his son on the question of rebuilding tellson's. But indeed, at that time, putting to death was a recipe much in vogue with all trades and professions, and not least of all with tellson's. “worth no more than that,” repeated mr. cruncher.
“that's quartering,” said jerry. “it's the damp, sir, what settles on my chest and voice,” said jerry. “blest if i know,” said jerry.
Ever borrow money of the prisoner? “mr. lorry, look upon the prisoner. “mr. lorry, look again upon the prisoner.
He still had his wig and gown on, and he said, squaring himself at his late client to that degree that he squeezed the innocent mr. lorry clean out of the group: “i am glad to have brought you off with honour, mr. darnay. Men of business may speak to mr. darnay now?” “if you knew what a conflict goes on in the business mind, when the business mind is divided between good-natured impulse and business appearances, you would be amused, mr. darnay.”
“you are a little late, memory,” said stryver. “and now we have done, sydney, fill a bumper of punch,” said mr. stryver. “how have i done what i have done?” said stryver; “how do i do what i do?”
“nothing to boast of,” said miss pross. “indeed?”  “ah! indeed!” said miss pross. “i don't want dozens of people who are not at all worthy of ladybird, to come here looking after her,” said miss pross.
The text of his order (altered from the original by only a pronoun, which is not much) ran: “the earth and the fulness thereof are mine, saith monseigneur.” For, the rooms, though a beautiful scene to look at, and adorned with every device of decoration that the taste and skill of the time could achieve, were, in truth, not a sound business; considered with any reference to the scarecrows in the rags and nightcaps elsewhere (and not so far off, either, but that the watching towers of notre dame, almost equidistant from the two extremes, could see them both), they would have been an exceedingly uncomfortable business--if that could have been anybody's business, at the house of monseigneur. Doctors who made great fortunes out of dainty remedies for imaginary disorders that never existed, smiled upon their courtly patients in the ante-chambers of monseigneur.
“your clemency, monseigneur! “with your gracious permission, that was the wonder of it, monseigneur. “it is you, monseigneur!
“thank you,” said the marquis--very sweetly indeed. “death has done that!” said the marquis. “yes.”  “yes,” said the marquis.
“i am obliged to them for their interest in the matter,” he answered, a little coldly as to them, though very warmly as to the doctor. Dear doctor “charles darnay!
Your manners have been of that silent and sullen and hangdog kind, that, upon my life and soul, i have been ashamed of you, sydney!” Now think of it, sydney.” “i'll think of it,” said sydney.
“halloa!” said mr. stryver. The discreet mr. lorry said, in a sample tone of the voice he would recommend under the circumstances, “how do you do, mr. stryver? “am i not prosperous?” asked stryver.
The fellow of no delicacy   if sydney carton ever shone anywhere, he certainly never shone in the house of doctor manette. He knew her to be so, without looking at her, and said:  “pray forgive me, miss manette. “entreat me to believe it no more, miss manette.
“hooroar, father!” cried young jerry. “was he a spy?” asked mr. cruncher. “yes, jerry.”
There had been earlier drinking than usual in the wine-shop of monsieur defarge. This had been the third morning in succession, on which there had been early drinking at the wine-shop of monsieur defarge. “good day, gentlemen!” said monsieur defarge.
“but my dear!” began defarge. “it does not take a long time to strike a man with lightning,” said defarge. “a long time, i suppose,” said defarge.
“you are happy, my dear father?” “and i am very happy to-night, dear father. “if i could hope _that_, my father!--”
Well; but don't cry,” said the gentle mr. lorry. “i am not crying,” said miss pross; “_you_ are.” “i, my pross?”
If the impression were not produced by a real corresponding and sufficient cause, how came he, jarvis lorry, there? “now, as to the future,” hinted mr. lorry. I am thankful!” said mr. lorry.
He was not improved in habits, or in looks, or in manner; but there was a certain rugged air of fidelity about him, which was new to the observation of charles darnay. I thank you, darnay. “i don't know that you 'never will.'”
“show me the north tower!” said defarge. “what is the meaning of one hundred and five, north tower?” asked defarge. They found it surging and tossing, in quest of defarge himself.
O mother of god, this foulon! I swear on my knees, on these stones, to avenge you on foulon! Madame defarge sat observing it, with such suppressed approval as was to be desired in the leader of the saint antoine women.
“to-night?” said the mender of roads. He and the mender of roads sat on the heap of stones looking silently at one another, with the hail driving in between them like a pigmy charge of bayonets, until the sky began to clear over the village. About two leagues beyond the summit of that hill above the village.”
That i am too old?” said mr. lorry. You are a pretty fellow to object and advise!” exclaimed mr. lorry. “how i admire the gallantry of your youthful spirit, mr. lorry.”
“i have no choice,” said charles darnay. “just heaven!” exclaimed darnay. “but never by me, citizen defarge.”
“don't look!” cried mr. lorry. The soldiers' swords are sharpened there,” said mr. lorry. Lucie!
“yes,” returned defarge. She stopped in the act of putting the note in her bosom, and, with her hands yet at her neck, looked terrified at madame defarge. I believe,” said mr. lorry, rather halting in his reassuring words, as the stony manner of all the three impressed itself upon him more and more, “i state the case, citizen defarge?”
There was no pause, no pity, no peace, no interval of relenting rest, no measurement of time. Silent, humane, indispensable in hospital and prison, using his art equally among assassins and victims, he was a man apart. Now that this was changed, and he knew himself to be invested through that old trial with forces to which they both looked for charles's ultimate safety and deliverance, he became so far exalted by the change, that he took the lead and direction, and required them as the weak, to trust to him as the strong.
During all that time lucie was never sure, from hour to hour, but that the guillotine would strike off her husband's head next day. “o show me the place, my father, and i will go there every day.” When it was not too wet or inclement for her child to be with her, they went together; at other times she was alone; but, she never missed a single day.
He also referred with confidence to the citizen's letter, which had been taken from him at the barrier, but which he did not doubt would be found among the papers then before the president. “charles evremonde, called darnay!” Next day, fifteen prisoners were put to the bar before charles darnay's name was called.
Doctor manette, whom this visitation had so turned into stone, that he stood with the lamp in his hand, as if he were a statue made to hold it, moved after these words were spoken, put the lamp down, and confronting the speaker, and taking him, not ungently, by the loose front of his red woollen shirt, said:  “you know him, you have said. “we all know you, citizen doctor,” said the other three. Who moved uneasily on his feet, rubbed his beard a little, and at length said:  “well!
I wish you had a better employed brother than mr. barsad. And gradually, what i had done at random, seemed to shape itself into a purpose, mr. barsad.” “you apprehend me very clearly, mr. barsad.
“i never said it would.” “i forgot it,” he said. I didn't quite mean what i said.”
“'she has a husband, a father, and a brother?'  “'a brother.'  “'i do not address her brother?' “'do you doubt them?' asked the younger brother. They continued to be uttered in their regular succession, with the cry, 'my husband, my father, and my brother!'
Only her father and mr. lorry were with her. O, look at her, dear carton! He will perish: there is no real hope,” echoed carton.
“no!” protested defarge. “it is so,” assented defarge. “it is so,” assented defarge again.
He never thought of carton. The door was quickly opened and closed, and there stood before him face to face, quiet, intent upon him, with the light of a smile on his features, and a cautionary finger on his lip, sydney carton. “carton!
“where could you wait for me?” asked miss pross. “by the cathedral door,” said miss pross. The having originated a precaution which was already in course of execution, was a great relief to miss pross.
“i see the lives for which i lay down my life, peaceful, useful, prosperous and happy, in that england which i shall see no more. So used are the regular inhabitants of the houses to the spectacle, that in many windows there are no people, and in some the occupation of the hands is not so much as suspended, while the eyes survey the faces in the tumbrils. The vengeance, stamping her foot in the chair, “and here are the tumbrils!
