Treasure island     part one--the old buccaneer
At first i had supposed “the dead man’s chest” to be that identical big box of his upstairs in the front room, and the thought had been mingled in my nightmares with that of the one-legged seafaring man. Then he rapped on the door with a bit of stick like a handspike that he carried, and when my father appeared, called roughly for a glass of rum. He never wrote or received a letter, and he never spoke with any but the neighbours, and with these, for the most part, only when drunk on rum. “fifteen men on the dead man’s chest-- yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum! Drink and the devil had done for the rest-- yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!”
I told him i did not know his mate bill, and this was for a person who stayed in our house whom we called the captain. For a long time, though i certainly did my best to listen, i could hear nothing but a low gattling; but at last the voices began to grow higher, and i could pick up a word or two, mostly oaths, from the captain. The expression of his face as he said these words was not at all pleasant, and i had my own reasons for thinking that the stranger was mistaken, even supposing he meant what he said. “black dog!” said he. “no, sir,” said i.
“but what is the black spot, captain?” “now, boy,” he said, “take me in to the captain.” I’ll give you a golden guinea for a noggin, jim.” But you won’t peach unless they get the black spot on me, or unless you see that black dog again or a seafaring man with one leg, jim--him above all.” But he broke in cursing the doctor, in a feeble voice but heartily.
They had never been worn, my mother said. “perhaps it’s round his neck,” suggested my mother. “i’ll show these rogues that i’m an honest woman,” said my mother. In the meantime, we had found nothing of any value but the silver and the trinkets, and neither of these were in our way. “mother,” said i, “take the whole and let’s be going,” for i was sure the bolted door must have seemed suspicious and would bring the whole hornet’s nest about our ears, though how thankful i was that i had bolted it, none could tell who had never met that terrible blind man.
Roared pew. I wish i had put his eyes out!” cried the blind man, pew. “budge, you skulk!” cried pew. And that was plainly the last signal of danger, for the buccaneers turned at once and ran, separating in every direction, one seaward along the cove, one slant across the hill, and so on, so that in half a minute not a sign of them remained but pew. Finally he took a wrong turn and ran a few steps past me, towards the hamlet, crying, “johnny, black dog, dirk,” and other names, “you won’t leave old pew, mates--not old pew!”
No, she said, he had come home in the afternoon but had gone up to the hall to dine and pass the evening with the squire. “heard of him!” cried the squire. “money!” cried the squire. “amount, sir!” cried the squire. “the thing is as clear as noonday,” cried the squire.
She lies at anchor, ready for sea. I found he was an old sailor, kept a public-house, knew all the seafaring men in bristol, had lost his health ashore, and wanted a good berth as cook to get to sea again. Though i had lived by the shore all my life, i seemed never to have been near the sea till then. He has no pension, livesey. Let young hawkins go at once to see his mother, with redruth for a guard; and then both come full speed to bristol.
“that he did, you may be sure,” said i. “i knew that blind man too. As i was waiting, a man came out of a side room, and at a glance i was sure he must be long john. “i see. You are our new cabin-boy; pleased i am to see you.” “i don’t care two coppers who he is,” cried silver.
He and the squire were very thick and friendly, but i soon observed that things were not the same between mr. trelawney and the captain. “i can’t speak as to that, sir, not having seen her tried,” said the captain. “i was engaged, sir, on what we call sealed orders, to sail this ship for that gentleman where he should bid me,” said the captain. “it’s a way of speaking,” said the captain. “very good,” said the captain.
The man at the helm was watching the luff of the sail and whistling away gently to himself, and that was the only sound excepting the swish of the sea against the bows and around the sides of the ship. But there we were, without a mate; and it was necessary, of course, to advance one of the men. And john would touch his forelock with a solemn way he had that made me think he was the best of men. “he had good schooling in his young days and can speak like a book when so minded; and brave--a lion’s nothing alongside of long john! “come away, hawkins,” he would say; “come and have a yarn with john.
11  what i heard in the apple barrel  “no, not i,” said silver. “davis was a man too, by all accounts,” said silver. “’tain’t much use for fools, you may lay to it--that, nor nothing,” cried silver. “why, where might you suppose it was?” asked silver derisively. “dick’s square,” said silver.
“the anchorage is on the south, behind an islet, i fancy?” asked the captain. “no more an ass than i, sir,” returned the captain. “he’d look remarkably well from a yard-arm, sir,” returned the captain. “you, sir, are the captain. “i did think i could have trusted hands,” added the captain.
All the way in, long john stood by the steersman and conned the ship. If they all go, why we’ll fight the ship. It is one thing to be idle and skulk and quite another to take a ship and murder a number of innocent men. We held a council in the cabin. The honest hands--and i was soon to see it proved that there were such on board--must have been very stupid fellows.
I turned hither and thither among the trees. And now i began to feel that i was neglecting my business, that since i had been so foolhardy as to come ashore with these desperadoes, the least i could do was to overhear them at their councils, and that my plain and obvious duty was to draw as close as i could manage, under the favourable ambush of the crouching trees. The air too smelt more freshly than down beside the marsh. All’s up--you can’t make nor mend; it’s to save your neck that i’m a-speaking, and if one of the wild uns knew it, where’d i be, tom--now, tell me, where’d i be?” But in heaven’s name, tell me, what was that?”
Wherever a man is, says i, a man can do for himself. Well, you just put your trust in ben gunn--ben gunn’s the man to do it. I says. “ah, silver!” says he. You can stay here and find flint’s money for yourself,’ they says.
And so now i made up my mind instantly, and with no time lost returned to the shore and jumped on board the jolly-boat. “down, dog!” cries the captain. Pork, powder, and biscuit was the cargo, with only a musket and a cutlass apiece for the squire and me and redruth and the captain. “gray,” resumed mr. smollett, a little louder, “i am leaving this ship, and i order you to follow your captain. The squire was waiting for me at the stern window, all his faintness gone from him.
“i cannot keep her head for the stockade, sir,” said i to the captain. “if it’s the only course that we can lie, sir, we must even lie it,” returned the captain. “look astern, doctor,” replied the captain. “who’s the best shot?” asked the captain. Hands, if possible,” said the captain.
“you can calculate for yourself,” i said. That’s what i mean,” replied the captain. “oho!” said the captain. “strike my colours!” cried the captain. “captain,” said i, “trelawney is the dead shot.
The latter stood in several places as much as a foot or a foot and a half above the surface of the sand. There was a porch at the door, and under this porch the little spring welled up into an artificial basin of a rather odd kind--no other than a great ship’s kettle of iron, with the bottom knocked out, and sunk “to her bearings,” as the captain said, among the sand. Most of the soil had been washed away or buried in drift after the removal of the trees; only where the streamlet ran down from the kettle a thick bed of moss and some ferns and little creeping bushes were still green among the sand. The cold evening breeze, of which i have spoken, whistled through every chink of the rude building and sprinkled the floor with a continual rain of fine sand. Reasons of his own; that’s the mainstay; as between man and man.
“flag of truce,” cried silver. “cap’n silver! “right you were, cap’n smollett,” replied silver. “well, here it is,” said silver. This little whiff of temper seemed to cool silver down.
“hang them!” said the captain. “i told you so!” cried the captain. “did you hit your man?” asked the captain. “three!” repeated the captain. Cutlasses!” cried the captain.
I took my way straight for the east coast of the island, for i was determined to go down the sea side of the spit to avoid all chance of observation from the anchorage. Behind me was the sea, in front the anchorage. And when, at last, i shouldered the coracle and groped my way stumblingly out of the hollow where i had supped, there were but two points visible on the whole anchorage. “i take it,” replied i, “the doctor has his idea; and if i am right, he’s going now to see ben gunn.” These biscuits, should anything befall me, would keep me, at least, from starving till far on in the next day.
The breeze had but little action on the coracle, and i was almost instantly swept against the bows of the hispaniola. I was just thinking how busy drink and the devil were at that very moment in the cabin of the hispaniola, when i was surprised by a sudden lurch of the coracle. At the same time, the schooner began to turn upon her heel, spinning slowly, end for end, across the current. “but one man of her crew alive, what put to sea with seventy-five.” I pulled in hand over hand on the cord, and when i judged myself near enough, rose at infinite risk to about half my height and thus commanded the roof and a slice of the interior of the cabin.
But even a small change in the disposition of the weight will produce violent changes in the behaviour of a coracle. She headed nearly due south, yawing, of course, all the time. Immensely tall she looked to me from my low station in the coracle. To the north of that, again, there comes another cape--cape of the woods, as it was marked upon the chart--buried in tall green pines, which descended to the margin of the sea. There was a great, smooth swell upon the sea.
“why, yes,” says i, “with all my heart, mr. hands. Dozens of empty bottles clinked together in corners to the rolling of the ship. This had nearly tossed me off into the sea; and now i lost no time, crawled back along the bowsprit, and tumbled head foremost on the deck. I was on the lee side of the forecastle, and the mainsail, which was still drawing, concealed from me a certain portion of the after-deck. The jibs behind me cracked aloud, the rudder slammed to, the whole ship gave a sickening heave and shudder, and at the same moment the main-boom swung inboard, the sheet groaning in the blocks, and showed me the lee after-deck.
“i’ll bring you port, mr. hands. There was this here o’brien now--he’s dead, ain’t he? “you were asking me just now about the dead. As i did so, i let go of the tiller, which sprang sharp to leeward, and i think this saved my life, for it struck hands across the chest and stopped him, for the moment, dead. “now,” said hands, “look there; there’s a pet bit for to beach a ship in.
He went in with a sounding plunge; the red cap came off and remained floating on the surface; and as soon as the splash subsided, i could see him and israel lying side by side, both wavering with the tremulous movement of the water. Of course, when the schooner canted over, the boom had swung out-board, and the cap of it and a foot or two of sail hung even under water. Possibly i might be blamed a bit for my truantry, but the recapture of the hispaniola was a clenching answer, and i hoped that even captain smollett would confess i had not lost my time. “pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!
“what i can do, that i’ll do,” i said. “will you taste, messmate?” he asked; and when i had refused: “well, i’ll take a dram myself, jim,” said he. “ah, well, he did, though,” said he. The doctor himself is gone dead again you--‘ungrateful scamp’ was what he said; and the short and the long of the whole story is about here: you can’t go back to your own lot, for they won’t have you; and without you start a third ship’s company all by yourself, which might be lonely, you’ll have to jine with cap’n silver.” “well, it’s all that you’re to hear, my son,” returned silver.
“well, let ’em come, lad--let ’em come,” said silver cheerily. “step up, lad,” cried silver. “well, you’ve about fixed it now, among you,” continued silver. Then dick can get to prayers,” said silver. “i thought you said you knowed the rules,” returned silver contemptuously.
“here’s the doctor.” And the doctor it was. “you, doctor! “don’t he?” replied the doctor. “so, jim,” said the doctor sadly, “here you are.
“i’ve taken a notion into my old numbskull,” observed silver. “by the powers, and that’s true!” cried silver. If it don’t make me cold inside to think of flint. Dear heart, but he died bad, did flint!” It was main hot, and the windy was open, and i hear that old song comin’ out as clear as clear--and the death-haul on the man already.”
“ah, well, my son, you praise your stars he’s dead,” said silver. “by the powers, ben gunn!” roared silver. Well, maybe,” he said. “well, that’s so,” he said. “that was how the rum took him,” added merry.
“two guineas!” roared merry, shaking it at silver. One thing i observed, which looked well for us: they all got out upon the opposite side from silver. “and,” he added, after a long pause, “how do, mr. silver? Is that you, john silver? “come back to my dooty, sir,” returned silver.
“all drunk, sir,” struck in the voice of silver from behind us. “i suppose you would hardly ask me to call you a humane man,” returned the doctor with a sneer, “and so my feelings may surprise you, master silver. “ask your pardon, sir, you would be very wrong,” quoth silver. “no,” said the doctor. That was about our last doing on the island.
