Book one: 1805
Can one be calm in times like these if one has any feeling?” said anna pávlovna. Anna pávlovna I must put in an appearance there,” said the prince.
“soyez tranquille, lise, you will always be prettier than anyone else,” replied anna pávlovna. “what a delightful woman this little princess is!” said prince vasíli to anna pávlovna. Anna pávlovna greeted him with the nod she accorded to the lowest hierarchy in her drawing room.
The third group was gathered round mortemart and anna pávlovna. “the vicomte is a wonderful raconteur,” said she to another. With a slight rustle of her white dress trimmed with moss and ivy, with a gleam of white shoulders, glossy hair, and sparkling diamonds, she passed between the men who made way for her, not looking at any of them but smiling on all, as if graciously allowing each the privilege of admiring her beautiful figure and shapely shoulders, back, and bosom—which in the fashion of those days were very much exposed—and she seemed to bring the glamour of a ballroom with her as she moved toward anna pávlovna.
“what would it cost you to say a word to the emperor, and then he would be transferred to the guards at once?” said she. “listen to me, prince,” said she. She knew his father to be a connection of prince vasíli’s.
“bâton de gueules, engrêlé de gueules d’azur—maison condé,” said he. She said....” “she said....
Prince “if no one fought except on his own conviction, there would be no wars,” he said. Pierre was ungainly.
The other day at the apráksins’ i heard a lady asking, ‘is that the famous prince andrew?’ “with my father and sister, remember,” said prince andrew gently. “your doctor tells you to go to bed earlier,” said prince andrew.
No, don’t marry, my dear fellow; don’t marry!” concluded prince andrew. “how can he talk like that?” thought pierre. “my part is played out,” said prince andrew.
Good man!” cried he, addressing pierre. A bottle here,” said anatole, and taking a glass from the table he went up to pierre. Dólokhov was holding the englishman’s hand and clearly and distinctly repeating the terms of the bet, addressing himself particularly to anatole and pierre.
“i am so sorry for the poor count,” said the visitor. “that’s what comes of a modern education,” exclaimed the visitor. “you don’t say so!” replied the countess.
The visitor’s daughter was already smoothing down her dress with an inquiring look at her mother, when suddenly from the next room were heard the footsteps of boys and girls running to the door and the noise of a chair falling over, and a girl of thirteen, hiding something in the folds of her short muslin frock, darted in and stopped short in the middle of the room. “what a charming child,” she added, addressing the mother. Nicholas blushed when he entered the drawing room.
“isn’t she too young? “but they say that war has been declared,” replied the visitor. As he spoke he kept glancing with the flirtatiousness of a handsome youth at sónya and the young lady visitor.
“oh, how nice,” thought natásha; and when sónya and nicholas had gone out of the conservatory she followed and called borís to her. “kiss the doll,” said she. “settled!” replied borís.
“how often have i asked you not to take my things?” she said. It was pleasant and touching to see these little girls in love; but apparently the sight of them roused no pleasant feeling in véra. “you always manage to do things at the wrong time,” continued véra.
“ah, prince! “has he performed his final duty, prince? “would not such a meeting be too trying for him, dear anna mikháylovna?” said he.
“how do you do, cousin?” said pierre. “ah, count rostóv!” exclaimed pierre joyfully. “so it does,” thought pierre.
“well, little countess? “what are your commands, little countess?” “oh, little countess!”
“la balance y est... * a german knows how to skin a flint, as the proverb says,” remarked shinshín, moving his pipe to the other side of his mouth and winking at the count.  * At the ladies’ end an even chatter of voices was heard all the time, at the men’s end the voices sounded louder and louder, especially that of the colonel of hussars who, growing more and more flushed, ate and drank so much that the count held him up as a pattern to the other guests. Of the four crystal glasses engraved with the count’s monogram that stood before his plate, pierre held out one at random and drank with enjoyment, gazing with ever-increasing amiability at the other guests.
“you know my son’s going, márya dmítrievna? “ice pudding, but you won’t get any,” said márya dmítrievna. Natásha saw there was nothing to be afraid of and so she braved even márya dmítrievna.
Borís, come here,” said natásha. And he is so clever and so good!” said natásha. Just look at her!” exclaimed the countess as she crossed the ballroom, pointing to natásha.
After sitting so for a while he rose, and, looking about him with frightened eyes, went with unusually hurried steps down the long corridor leading to the back of the house, to the room of the eldest princess. I love you all, like children of my own, as you know.” “he has made wills enough!” quietly remarked the princess.
Trust yourself to me, pierre. Anna mikháylovna with just the same movement raised her shoulders and eyes, almost closing the latter, sighed, and moved away from the doctor to pierre. He seemed to have grown thinner since the morning; his eyes seemed larger than usual when he glanced round and noticed pierre.
When pierre came up the count was gazing straight at him, but with a look the significance of which could not be understood by mortal man. Under the gleaming icons stood a long invalid chair, and in that chair on snowy-white smooth pillows, evidently freshly changed, pierre saw—covered to the waist by a bright green quilt—the familiar, majestic figure of his father, count bezúkhov, with that gray mane of hair above his broad forehead which reminded one of a lion, and the deep characteristically noble wrinkles of his handsome, ruddy face. Pierre, carefully stretching his neck so as not to touch the quilt, followed her suggestion and pressed his lips to the large boned, fleshy hand.
“catiche has had tea served in the small drawing room,” said prince vasíli to anna mikháylovna. Their efforts in the struggle for the portfolio were the only sounds audible, but it was evident that if the princess did speak, her words would not be flattering to anna mikháylovna. Pierre understood nothing of all this and coloring shyly looked in silence at princess anna mikháylovna.
The old man was beside himself: moved the chair on which he was sitting noisily backward and forward, made efforts to control himself and not become vehement, but almost always did become vehement, scolded, and sometimes flung the exercise book away. He never gave his children a blessing, so he simply held out his bristly cheek (as yet unshaven) and, regarding her tenderly and attentively, said severely:  “quite well? “read this if you like, father,” said the princess, blushing still more and holding out the letter.
Prince Let us go across to mary’s room,” he said. “is it certain?” she said.
Who?” cried the prince. “you must walk, walk as much as possible, as much as possible,” he said. Sit down, michael ivánovich!”
Oh, andrew! “one must be indulgent to little weaknesses; who is free from them, andrew? “i don’t like your mademoiselle bourienne at all,” said prince andrew.
“what?” asked the commander. Didn’t i tell you, michael mítrich, that if it was said ‘on the march’ it meant in greatcoats?” said he reproachfully to the battalion commander. “commander of the third company wanted by the general!... commander to the general... third company to the commander.”
From the way the regimental commander saluted the commander in chief and devoured him with his eyes, drawing himself up obsequiously, and from the way he walked through the ranks behind the generals, bending forward and hardly able to restrain his jerky movements, and from the way he darted forward at every word or gesture of the commander in chief, it was evident that he performed his duty as a subordinate with even greater zeal than his duty as a commander. Are you satisfied with him?” he asked the regimental commander. “and what about his character?” asked the regimental commander.
“but that is my conviction, and judging by the last letter with which his highness the archduke ferdinand has honored me, i imagine that the austrian troops, under the direction of so skillful a leader as general mack, have by now already gained a decisive victory and no longer need our aid,” said kutúzov. The general with the bandaged head bent forward as though running away from some danger, and, making long, quick strides with his thin legs, went up to kutúzov. “give me that letter,” said kutúzov turning to prince andrew.
His landlord, who in a waistcoat and a pointed cap, pitchfork in hand, was clearing manure from the cowhouse, looked out, and his face immediately brightened on seeing rostóv. Then he remained silent for a while, and all at once looked cheerfully with his glittering, black eyes at rostóv. (rook was a young horse telyánin had sold to rostóv.)
“i did not expect this of you,” said the staff captain seriously and severely. “well, it’s as you like,” said the staff captain. “it is an illness, there’s no other way of explaining it,” said the staff captain.
“would not your excellency like a little refreshment?” he said. “so they will,” said nesvítski. “hadn’t i better ride over, your excellency?” asked nesvítski.
Looking on the bridge he saw equally uniform living waves of soldiers, shoulder straps, covered shakos, knapsacks, bayonets, long muskets, and, under the shakos, faces with broad cheekbones, sunken cheeks, and listless tired expressions, and feet that moved through the sticky mud that covered the planks of the bridge. Sometimes through the monotonous waves of men, like a fleck of white foam on the waves of the enns, an officer, in a cloak and with a type of face different from that of the men, squeezed his way along; sometimes like a chip of wood whirling in the river, an hussar on foot, an orderly, or a townsman was carried through the waves of infantry; and sometimes like a log floating down the river, an officers’ or company’s baggage wagon, piled high, leather covered, and hemmed in on all sides, moved across the bridge. It’ll be worse if he fires the bridge.
At last the baggage wagons had all crossed, the crush was less, and the last battalion came onto the bridge. Just then the commander appeared on the bridge. “colonel,” he said, addressing rostóv’s enemy with an air of gloomy gravity and glancing round at his comrades, “there is an order to stop and fire the bridge.”
Prince As soon as he closed his eyes his ears seemed filled with the rattle of the wheels and the sensation of victory. A victory?
Prince I could not have a more welcome visitor,” said bilíbin as he came out to meet prince andrew. Bilíbin was a man of thirty-five, a bachelor, and of the same circle as prince andrew.
“in general we must turn this bloodthirsty soldier to more humane interests,” said bilíbin. “tell me about that!” he said. Au revoir, prince!
“eh? what?” asked prince andrew. What is it all about?” inquired prince andrew impatiently. “stop jesting,” said prince andrew sadly and seriously.
Prince Seeing prince “you won’t be able to find either your baggage or anything else now, prince.
The road for the french from vienna to znaim was shorter and better than the road for the russians from krems to znaim. Kutúzov himself with all his transport took the road to znaim. Kutúzov with his transport had still to march for some days before he could reach znaim.
“there now, prince! “why didn’t you mention it, prince? “this is a pleasure one gets in camp, prince.”
“yes, one is afraid,” continued the first speaker, he of the familiar voice. Our right flank was posted on a rather steep incline which dominated the french position. Prince
Prince andrew turned his horse and galloped back to grunth to find prince bagratión. The foremost, wearing a cossack cloak and lambskin cap and riding a white horse, was prince bagratión. “very good!” said bagratión.
“well done, lads!” said prince bagratión. They began to meet wounded men. “what is this?” thought prince andrew approaching the crowd of soldiers.
And the excited, alien face of that man, his bayonet hanging down, holding his breath, and running so lightly, frightened rostóv. There was nothing fresh to be seen from the line, for from where they had been before it had been evident that it was impossible for cavalry to act among the bushes and broken ground, as well as that the french were outflanking our left. The horses’ croups began to sway in the front line.
“captain túshin! Prince andrew said nothing to túshin. When having limbered up the only two cannon that remained uninjured out of the four, they began moving down the hill (one shattered gun and one unicorn were left behind), prince andrew rode up to túshin.
“give him a seat,” said túshin. “then what is this blood on the gun carriage?” inquired túshin. “you don’t mind your honor?” he asked túshin.
His whole time was taken up with dinners and balls and was spent chiefly at prince vasíli’s house in the company of the stout princess, his wife, and his beautiful daughter hélène. On leaving them, anna pávlovna again touched pierre’s sleeve, saying: “i hope you won’t say that it is dull in my house again,” and she glanced at hélène. “that’s a good thing, but don’t move from prince vasíli’s.
Not only the guests but even the footmen waiting at table seemed to feel this, and they forgot their duties as they looked at the beautiful hélène with her radiant face and at the red, broad, and happy though uneasy face of pierre. “well, what of it, if you all know it?” thought pierre. “how can one talk or think of such trifles?” thought pierre.
“thought... blackguards...” shouted the prince rapidly. I got him his appointment in the service,” said the prince disdainfully. Above all, try to be respectful and cautious with the old prince.”
“why is it you were never at annette’s?” the little princess asked anatole. Prince bolkónski surveyed anatole. Now tell me, my dear boy, are you serving in the horse guards?” asked the old man, scrutinizing anatole closely and intently.
Princess Go back to your rooms, princess. “my vocation is a different one,” thought princess mary.
“you are a little slyboots,” she said. “if i’d been in nikólenka’s place i would have killed even more of those frenchmen,” he said. “i remember nikólenka too, i remember him well,” she said.
“here he is at last!” shouted rostóv. “oh, you guards!” said rostóv. Come, how are you?” asked rostóv.
“oh god, what would happen to me if the emperor spoke to me?” thought rostóv. “oh, to die, to die for him,” thought rostóv. “my god, how happy i should be if he ordered me to leap into the fire this instant!” thought rostóv.
Prince We’ll talk it over,” replied prince andrew. None of these gentlemen changed his position on seeing borís.
The wounded soldier was so dirty, coarse, and revolting that his proximity to the emperor shocked rostóv. And the old cavalry captain, kírsten, shouted enthusiastically and no less sincerely than the twenty-year-old rostóv. “denísov, don’t make fun of it!” cried rostóv.
Bolkónski took the opportunity to go in to get some details of the coming action from dolgorúkov. He felt that kutúzov was upset and dissatisfied about something and that at headquarters they were dissatisfied with him, and also that at the emperor’s headquarters everyone adopted toward him the tone of men who know something others do not know: he therefore wished to speak to dolgorúkov. “there will be a council of war at kutúzov’s tonight, though; you can say all this there,” remarked dolgorúkov.
The third column marches...” and so on, read weyrother. Weyrother had been twice that evening to the enemy’s picket line to reconnoiter personally, and twice to the emperors, russian and austrian, to report and explain, and to his headquarters where he had dictated the dispositions in german, and now, much exhausted, he arrived at kutúzov’s. “if he could attack us, he would have done so today,” said he.
“from the direction, it must be the enemy,” repeated rostóv. “your honor, the generals!” said the sergeant, riding up to rostóv. Shall i go with some of my hussars to see?” replied rostóv.
Then a general rode past shouting something angrily, not in russian. Below, where the fight was beginning, there was still thick fog; on the higher ground it was clearing, but nothing could be seen of what was going on in front. Above him was a clear blue sky, and the sun’s vast orb quivered like a huge hollow, crimson float on the surface of that milky sea of mist.
“the dispositions!” exclaimed kutúzov bitterly. “waiting, your majesty,” repeated kutúzov. The tsar heard but obviously did not like the reply; he shrugged his rather round shoulders and glanced at novosíltsev who was near him, as if complaining of kutúzov.
My turn has come,” thought prince andrew, and striking his horse he rode up to kutúzov. A mounted general separated himself from the infantry and approached kutúzov. “the wound is not here, it is there!” said kutúzov, pressing the handkerchief to his wounded cheek and pointing to the fleeing soldiers.
“how it will be there i don’t know, but all will be well!” thought rostóv. This guardsman would certainly have bowled rostóv and his bedouin over (rostóv felt himself quite tiny and weak compared to these gigantic men and horses) had it not occurred to rostóv to flourish his whip before the eyes of the guardsman’s horse. Rostóv without hearing borís to the end spurred his horse.
“it can’t be!” said rostóv. “who? kutúzov?” asked rostóv. The wounded crept together in twos and threes and one could hear their distressing screams and groans, sometimes feigned—or so it seemed to rostóv.
He is alive,” said napoleon. “you are the commander of the emperor alexander’s regiment of horse guards?” asked napoleon. “your regiment fulfilled its duty honorably,” said napoleon.
That’s our house,” said rostóv. “why did sónya run away?” asked rostóv. “as may happen,” said rostóv.
“what have the young people come to nowadays, eh, feoktíst?” said he. “ah, my dear friend, he is very unfortunate,” she said. Reasons were found for the incredible, unheard-of, and impossible event of a russian defeat, everything became clear, and in all corners of moscow the same things began to be said.
Count ilyá, again thrusting his way through the crowd, went out of the drawing room and reappeared a minute later with another committeeman, carrying a large silver salver which he presented to prince bagratión. Conquest’s joyful thunder waken, triumph, valiant russians, now!...  and count rostóv, glancing angrily at the author who went on reading his verses, bowed to bagratión. Have we not bagratión?
“well, now to the health of handsome women!” said dólokhov, and with a serious expression, but with a smile lurking at the corners of his mouth, he turned with his glass to pierre. “i should perhaps have done the same thing in his place,” thought pierre. When all was ready, the sabers stuck in the snow to mark the barriers, and the pistols loaded, nesvítski went up to pierre.
V  “well, begin!” said dólokhov. Rostóv and denísov drove away with the wounded dólokhov. “who?” asked rostóv.
What have i...?” stammered pierre. “don’t speak to me... i beg you,” muttered pierre hoarsely. His father’s nature showed itself in pierre.
Go, princess mary. “what is the matter, mary?” Princess
Say it’s only indigestion, say so, mary! Thank god!” said princess mary. “it’s andrew!” thought princess mary.
Prince A woman came from the bedroom with a frightened face and became confused when she saw prince andrew. The pangs began again and mary bogdánovna advised prince andrew to leave the room.
And do you know he has fallen in love with sónya?” He came because of sónya. Few people do understand him.
“if i have time,” answered nicholas. “yes, my sónya could not have done otherwise!” thought nicholas. “and mamma pressed her!” said nicholas reproachfully.
“how sweet she is—she will be a weal beauty!” said denísov. “who?”  “countess natásha,” answered denísov. “about your sister,” ejaculated denísov testily.
Rostóv recalled at that moment a strange conversation he had once had with dólokhov. So i ask you to put the money on your cards,” replied dólokhov. “don’t stint yourself, we’ll settle afterwards,” he added, turning to rostóv.
The whole interest was concentrated on rostóv. “yes, i’m tired too,” said rostóv. “oh, it’s terrible to feel oneself so in this man’s power,” thought rostóv.
He was singing in passionate tones, gazing with his sparkling black-agate eyes at the frightened and happy natásha. “splendid! excellent!” exclaimed natásha. “another verse,” she said, without noticing nicholas.
“you should have seen how he said it! “don’t, natásha! I am telling you the fact,” said natásha indignantly.
Pierre took his feet off the table, stood up, and lay down on a bed that had been got ready for him, glancing now and then at the newcomer, who, with a gloomy and tired face, was wearily taking off his wraps with the aid of his servant, and not looking at pierre. The stern, shrewd, and penetrating expression of that look struck pierre. It was plain that he was lying and only wanted to get more money from the traveler.
The stranger’s face was not genial, it was even cold and severe, but in spite of this, both the face and words of his new acquaintance were irresistibly attractive to pierre. On the contrary, i am very glad to make your acquaintance,” said pierre. “yes, yes, i am unhappy,” assented pierre.
A week after his arrival, the young polish count, willarski, whom pierre had known slightly in petersburg society, came into his room one evening in the official and ceremonious manner in which dólokhov’s second had called on him, and, having closed the door behind him and satisfied himself that there was nobody else in the room, addressed pierre. The cold, austere tone of this man, whom he had almost always before met at balls, amiably smiling in the society of the most brilliant women, surprised pierre. “i have been an atheist,” answered pierre.
The candles were then extinguished and some spirit lighted, as pierre knew by the smell, and he was told that he would now see the lesser light. Let into the wall was a star-shaped light. “oh, hush, please!” said another.
I know all about it and understand it all,” he said. Now and then his attention wandered from the book and the square and he formed in imagination a new plan of life. “you behaved as becomes a man who values his honor, perhaps too hastily, but we won’t go into that.
He shrugged his shoulders when pierre was mentioned and, pointing to his forehead, remarked:  “a bit touched—i always said so.” But the story of the duel, confirmed by pierre’s rupture with his wife, was the talk of society. The greatest attention of all to borís’ narrative was shown by hélène.
“it is the sword of frederick the great which i...” she began, but hippolyte interrupted her with the words: “le roi de prusse...” and again, as soon as all turned toward him, excused himself and said no more. Oh, that wicked prince hippolyte!” she said. “come to dinner tomorrow... in the evening.
Prince The coachman who had driven the old prince to town returned bringing papers and letters for prince andrew. “andrew, don’t!” said princess mary.
In short, we retreat after the battle but send a courier to petersburg with news of a victory, and general bennigsen, hoping to receive from petersburg the post of commander in chief as a reward for his victory, does not give up the command of the army to general buxhöwden. So energetically do we pursue this aim that after crossing an unfordable river we burn the bridges to separate ourselves from our enemy, who at the moment is not bonaparte but buxhöwden. Bilíbin wrote that the obligation of diplomatic discretion tormented him, and he was happy to have in prince andrew a reliable correspondent to whom he could pour out the bile he had accumulated at the sight of all that was being done in the army.
The southern spring, the comfortable rapid traveling in a vienna carriage, and the solitude of the road, all had a gladdening effect on pierre. He discussed estate affairs every day with his chief steward. X  soon after his admission to the masonic brotherhood, pierre went to the kiev province, where he had the greatest number of serfs, taking with him full directions which he had written down for his own guidance as to what he should do on his estates.
“one thing i thank god for is that i did not kill that man,” said pierre. “bad! bad!” exclaimed pierre. “yes, we know that, but the harm i am conscious of in myself is something i cannot inflict on others,” said prince andrew, growing more and more animated and evidently wishing to express his new outlook to pierre.
“only our holy brotherhood has the real meaning of life, all the rest is a dream,” said pierre. But make our fundamental convictions your own, join our brotherhood, give yourself up to us, let yourself be guided, and you will at once feel yourself, as i have felt myself, a part of that vast invisible chain the beginning of which is hidden in heaven,” said pierre. And he began to explain freemasonry as he understood it to prince andrew.
“master, what have you said? “those are mary’s ‘god’s folk,’” said prince andrew. Some new relics?” asked prince andrew.
The old prince was in a good temper and very gracious to pierre. Not only princess mary, who had been won by his gentleness with the pilgrims, gave him her most radiant looks, but even the one-year-old “prince nicholas” (as his grandfather called him) smiled at pierre and let himself be taken in his arms, and michael ivánovich and mademoiselle bourienne looked at him with pleasant smiles when he talked to the old prince. Prince
When returning from his leave, rostóv felt, for the first time, how close was the bond that united him to denísov and the whole regiment. Life in the regiment, during this campaign, was all the pleasanter for him, because, after his loss to dólokhov (for which, in spite of all his family’s efforts to console him, he could not forgive himself), he had made up his mind to atone for his fault by serving, not as he had done before, but really well, and by being a perfectly first-rate comrade and officer—in a word, a splendid man altogether, a thing which seemed so difficult out in the world, but so possible in the regiment. It was awaiting the emperor’s arrival and the beginning of a new campaign.
“haven’t i told you i won’t give them up?” replied denísov. “and mine have had nothing for two weeks,” said denísov. The regimental doctor, when he came, said it was absolutely necessary to bleed denísov.
“how so?” asked rostóv. “but if you’ll step into the officers’ wards you’ll see for yourself,” he added, turning to rostóv. Just then a commissariat soldier, a hospital orderly, came in from the next room, marching stiffly, and drew up in front of rostóv.
His face had the same swollen pallor as the faces of the other hospital patients, but it was not this that struck rostóv. “it’s certainly well written,” said túshin, “but that’s not the point, vasíli dmítrich,” and he also turned to rostóv. “looking for vasíli dmítrich denísov?
Zhilínski, a pole brought up in paris, was rich, and passionately fond of the french, and almost every day of the stay at tilsit, french officers of the guard and from french headquarters were dining and lunching with him and borís. Rostóv, in common with the whole army from which he came, was far from having experienced the change of feeling toward napoleon and the french—who from being foes had suddenly become friends—that had taken place at headquarters and in borís. An expression of annoyance showed itself for a moment on his face on first recognizing rostóv.
“i may see him at any moment,” thought rostóv. “i come from major denísov,” answered rostóv. “lieutenant count rostóv.”
“to him who has borne himself most bravely in this last war,” added napoleon, accentuating each syllable, as with a composure and assurance exasperating to rostóv, he ran his eyes over the russian ranks drawn up before him, who all presented arms with their eyes fixed on their emperor. Two officers with flushed faces, looking cheerful and happy, passed by rostóv. “rostóv!
Xxii In 1809 the intimacy between “the world’s two arbiters,” as napoleon and alexander were called, was such that when napoleon declared war on austria a russian corps crossed the frontier to co-operate with our old enemy bonaparte against our old ally the emperor of austria, and in court circles the possibility of marriage between napoleon and one of alexander’s sisters was spoken of. But besides considerations of foreign policy, the attention of russian society was at that time keenly directed on the internal changes that were being undertaken in all the departments of government.
“what is he talking about?” thought prince andrew. “yes, the oak is right, a thousand times right,” thought prince andrew. Ah, here is one oak!”
“but when are you coming to bed?” replied another voice. She was evidently leaning right out, for the rustle of her dress and even her breathing could be heard. Do wake up, sónya!” she said almost with tears in her voice.
It now seemed clear to him that all his experience of life must be senselessly wasted unless he applied it to some kind of work and again played an active part in life. “yes, here in this forest was that oak with which i agreed,” thought prince andrew. “my dear,” princess mary entering at such a moment would say, “little nicholas can’t go out today, it’s very cold.”
Prince “i am not petitioning, your excellency,” returned prince andrew quietly. “i came at his majesty the emperor’s wish to learn from your excellency how you propose to deal with the memorandum i have presented,” said prince andrew politely.
From the irritation of the older men, the curiosity of the uninitiated, the reserve of the initiated, the hurry and preoccupation of everyone, and the innumerable committees and commissions of whose existence he learned every day, he felt that now, in 1809, here in petersburg a vast civil conflict was in preparation, the commander in chief of which was a mysterious person he did not know, but who was supposed to be a man of genius—speránski. “mon cher, even in this case you can’t do without michael mikháylovich speránski. “what has speránski to do with the army regulations?” asked prince andrew.
Prince Everything was right and everything was as it should be: only one thing disconcerted prince andrew. He made use of every kind of mental device, except analogy, and passed too boldly, it seemed to prince andrew, from one to another.
The majority of the brothers, seeing in it dangerous designs of illuminism, * met it with a coldness that surprised pierre. All the members of the lodges were men Pierre knew in ordinary life, and it was difficult for him to regard them merely as brothers in freemasonry and not as prince b. or iván vasílevich d., whom he knew in society mostly as weak and insignificant men.
Nothing in life seemed to him of much importance, and under the influence of the depression that possessed him he valued neither his liberty nor his resolution to punish his wife. Compared to what preoccupied him, was it not a matter of indifference whether he lived with his wife or not? I am again living with my wife.
This shade of deference also disturbed pierre. He was that absent-minded crank, a grand seigneur husband who was in no one’s way, and far from spoiling the high tone and general impression of the drawing room, he served, by the contrast he presented to her, as an advantageous background to his elegant and tactful wife. Pierre was just the husband needed for a brilliant society woman.
Brothers g. v. and o. visited me and we had a preliminary talk about the reception of a new brother. Lord, help me! I am going to bed with a happy and tranquil mind.
Country neighbors from otrádnoe, impoverished old squires and their daughters, perónskaya a maid of honor, pierre bezúkhov, and the son of their district postmaster who had obtained a post in petersburg. In 1809 he was a captain in the guards, wore medals, and held some special lucrative posts in petersburg. “yes, yes, all right!” said the count hurriedly.
This expression on his face pleased natásha. This gaze disturbed and confused borís more and more. Borís left moscow in 1805 to join the army he had not seen the rostóvs.
Yes?” said natásha. “natásha, you are sixteen. “but if i want to...” said natásha.
“don’t do it without me!” called natásha. “mamma, your cap, more to this side,” said natásha. That’s right, sónya.”
The two girls in their white dresses, each with a rose in her black hair, both curtsied in the same way, but the hostess’ eye involuntarily rested longer on the slim natásha. That gray-haired man,” she said, indicating an old man with a profusion of silver-gray curly hair, who was surrounded by ladies laughing at something he said. Looking at her she may have recalled the golden, irrecoverable days of her own girlhood and her own first ball.
Natásha felt that she would be left with her mother and sónya among a minority of women who crowded near the wall, not having been invited to dance. She was not concerned about the emperor or any of those great people whom perónskaya was pointing out—she had but one thought: “is it possible no one will ask me, that i shall not be among the first to dance? An aide-de-camp, the master of ceremonies, went up to countess bezúkhova and asked her to dance.
“how can people be dissatisfied with anything?” thought natásha. She was tired and panting and evidently thought of declining, but immediately put her hand gaily on the man’s shoulder, smiling at prince andrew. Natásha did not answer at once but only looked up with a smile that said reproachfully:
“where are you off to so early?” asked speránski. Prince andrew looked closely into those mirrorlike, impenetrable eyes, and felt that it had been ridiculous of him to have expected anything from speránski and from any of his own activities connected with him, or ever to have attributed importance to what speránski was doing. Still laughing, speránski held out his soft white hand to prince andrew.
Prince “yes,” he thought, “they are capital people, who of course have not the slightest idea what a treasure they possess in natásha; but they are kindly folk and form the best possible setting for this strikingly poetic, charming girl, overflowing with life!” “why do i strive, why do i toil in this narrow, confined frame, when life, all life with all its joys, is open to me?” said he to himself.
“this is what comes of knowing how to make acquaintances,” thought berg. There was a shade of condescension and patronage in his treatment of berg and véra. “i have just been to see the countess, your wife.
What do you think, prince?” “yes, that is true, prince. Now the general had begun such a discussion and so berg drew pierre to it.
It was prince andrew. Suddenly pierre heaved a deep sigh and dumped his heavy person down on the sofa beside prince andrew. I am very glad,” said pierre, and his face really changed, his brow became smooth, and he listened gladly to prince andrew.
“go, natásha! He is asking for your hand,” said the countess, coldly it seemed to natásha. Prince
Neither her father, nor her mother, nor sónya, nor prince andrew himself could have foreseen how the separation from her lover would act on natásha. He could talk about rural economy with the count, fashions with the countess and natásha, and about albums and fancywork with sónya. I beg you, natalie,” prince andrew said with sudden seriousness—“i am going away and heaven knows what may happen.
Oh, my friend! And what do you think, dear friend? Good-by, my dear friend.
Perhaps you will go and live with him too?” he added, turning to princess mary. “how is it that no one realizes this?” thought princess mary. I will go on till my legs fail, and i’ll lie down and die somewhere, and shall at last reach that eternal, quiet haven, where there is neither sorrow nor sighing...” thought princess mary.
This letter grieved and mortified nicholas. This letter touched nicholas. Pétya and natásha surprised nicholas most.
But what an account of everything might be nicholas knew even less than the frightened and bewildered mítenka. But they were carried forward—and you did not look at the other page.” “no, i beg you to attend to the business.
“daniel!” “we ought to go, don’t you think so?” said nicholas. “it’s not fair; you are going by yourself, are having the horses saddled and said nothing to us about it.”
A third person rode up circumspectly through the wood (it was plain that he had had a lesson) and stopped behind the count. “and you’re surprised at the way she rides, simon, eh?” said the count. “look out!” he shouted, in a voice plainly showing that he had long fretted to utter that word, and letting the borzois slip he galloped toward the count.
V  nicholas rostóv meanwhile remained at his post, waiting for the wolf. The first to come into view was mílka, with her black markings and powerful quarters, gaining upon the wolf. But, coming toward him, he saw hounds and a huntsman galloping almost straight at the wolf.
“yes, she’s fast enough,” replied nicholas, and thought: “if only a full-grown hare would cross the field now i’d show you what sort of borzoi she is,” and turning to his groom, he said he would give a ruble to anyone who found a hare. (this call and the uplifted whip meant that he saw a sitting hare.) “and suppose they outdo my mílka at once!” he thought as he rode with “uncle” and ilágin toward the hare.
That’s it, come on!” said “uncle.” “why don’t you enter the service, uncle?” I’m fond of it,” said “uncle.”
Only tell me that you wish it, and you know i will give my life, anything, to put you at ease,” said nicholas. “maybe i do love a poor girl,” said nicholas to himself. Because sónya is poor i must not love her,” he thought, “must not respond to her faithful, devoted love?
“let her alone, kondrátevna,” said natásha. “what can i do with them?” thought natásha. “oh dear, what a young lady!” said fóka, pretending to frown at natásha.
“do you remember?”  “i remember,” answered nicholas. “sónya, do you remember?” asked nicholas. “if we have been angels, why have we fallen lower?” said nicholas.
Really, how becoming it is to dear sónya. “i’ll go,” said sónya. “and how does one do it in a barn?” inquired sónya.
“natásha!” he whispered in french, “do you know i have made up my mind about sónya?” “sit down, natásha; perhaps you’ll see him,” said sónya. “you sit down now, sónya.
Nicholas replied that he could not go back on his word, and his father, sighing and evidently disconcerted, very soon became silent and went in to the countess. In all his encounters with his son, the count was always conscious of his own guilt toward him for having wasted the family fortune, and so he could not be angry with him for refusing to marry an heiress and choosing the dowerless sónya. Nicholas felt the situation to be intolerable and went to have an explanation with his mother.
Pierre felt that she was right, and to avoid compromising her went away to moscow. Pierre was one of those retired gentlemen-in-waiting of whom there were hundreds good-humoredly ending their days in moscow. “nothing is trivial, and nothing is important, it’s all the same—only to save oneself from it as best one can,” thought pierre.
Latterly that private life had become very trying for princess mary. Princess At the beginning of winter prince nicholas bolkónski and his daughter moved to moscow.
Métivier, who came in the morning with his felicitations, considered it proper in his quality of doctor de forcer la consigne, * as he told princess mary, and went in to see the prince. “you don’t understand?” shouted the prince, “but i do! “one would have thought quill drivers enough had sprung up,” remarked the old prince.
Princess What is it, princess?” Don’t take any notice—forget what i have said!”
Julie had long been expecting a proposal from her melancholy adorer and was ready to accept it; but some secret feeling of repulsion for her, for her passionate desire to get married, for her artificiality, and a feeling of horror at renouncing the possibility of real love still restrained borís. “my dear,” said anna mikháylovna to her son, “i know from a reliable source that prince vasíli has sent his son to moscow to get him married to julie. The idea of being made a fool of and of having thrown away that whole month of arduous melancholy service to julie, and of seeing all the revenue from the pénza estates which he had already mentally apportioned and put to proper use fall into the hands of another, and especially into the hands of that idiot anatole, pained borís.
“the old man is here and his son’s expected any day. “now listen,” she said to the count. And what have you to do yourself?” she asked the count sternly.
From the first glance princess mary did not like natásha. God is my witness, i didn’t know—” he repeated, stressing the word “god” so unnaturally and so unpleasantly that princess mary stood with downcast eyes not daring to look either at her father or at natásha. “i couldn’t begin talking about him in the presence of that frenchwoman,” thought natásha.
And his eyes—how i see those eyes!” thought natásha. A lady entering the next box shot a glance of feminine envy at natásha. “they are talking about us, about me and him!” thought natásha.
After her life in the country, and in her present serious mood, all this seemed grotesque and amazing to natásha. Having looked at natásha he approached his sister, laid his well gloved hand on the edge of her box, nodded to her, and leaning forward asked a question, with a motion toward natásha. And also from my husband’s friend bolkónski, prince andrew bolkónski,” she went on with special emphasis, implying that she knew of his relation to natásha.
She sat for a long time hiding her flushed face in her hands trying to realize what had happened to her, but was unable either to understand what had happened or what she felt. What was that terror i felt of him? She smiled just as he was doing, gazing straight into his eyes.
“i will tell my sister to ask her to dinner,” said anatole. “you know, i adore little girls, they lose their heads at once,” pursued anatole. Apart from the advantage he derived from anatole, the very process of dominating another’s will was in itself a pleasure, a habit, and a necessity to dólokhov.
Márya dmítrievna talked to the count about something which they concealed from natásha. She wore her holiday shawl, in which she paid calls, and announced that she was going to see prince nicholas bolkónski to have an explanation with him about natásha. “oh, my enchantress!” she cried to the blushing natásha.
There were a good many people there, but nearly all strangers to natásha. “i don’t think so when i look at you!” said anatole, following natásha. “one word, just one, for god’s sake!” cried anatole.
“oh, no!” exclaimed natásha. Having found what she was looking for in the reticule she handed it to natásha. “but she doesn’t like me,” said natásha.
“ah, sónya, if you only knew how happy i am!” cried natásha. “but, natásha, can that be all over?” “three days?” said natásha.
“give it to him, then,” said anatole. “fool,” retorted anatole. “ah!” said anatole.
Thank you for everything and farewell!” said anatole. Let’s go!” cried anatole. “no, stop!” said anatole.
Márya dmítrievna glanced round at sónya and seated herself on the sofa beside natásha. “i have no betrothed: i have refused him!” cried natásha. Very nice!” said márya dmítrievna.
“pierre! “yes, indeed, that’s a true sage,” thought pierre. And stay to dinner if you care to!” she called after pierre.
Anatole glanced round at his sister and rose submissively, ready to follow pierre. “when i tell you that i must talk to you!...” repeated pierre. “is it satisfaction you want?” said pierre ironically.
Mary came out to meet pierre. “but is it possible that all is really ended?” asked pierre. He paused at the sight of pierre.
Now mind, don’t tell her everything!” said she to pierre. “yes... i will tell him,” answered pierre; “but...” “i will tell him, i will tell him everything once more,” said pierre.
“my respected brother, i consent to restore the duchy to the duke of oldenburg”—and there would have been no war. Had napoleon not taken offense at the demand that he should withdraw beyond the vistula, and not ordered his troops to advance, there would have been no war; but had all his sergeants objected to serving a second term then also there could have been no war. What were its causes?
Early in the morning of the twelfth of june he came out of his tent, which was pitched that day on the steep left bank of the niemen, and looked through a spyglass at the streams of his troops pouring out of the vilkavisski forest and flowing over the three bridges thrown across the river. On reaching the broad river víliya, he stopped near a regiment of polish uhlans stationed by the river. The order was to find a ford and to cross the river.
(borís understood that arakchéev envied balashëv and was displeased that evidently important news had reached the emperor otherwise than through himself.) Hélène, not having a suitable partner, herself offered to dance the mazurka with borís. Borís noticed arakchéev’s excited face when the sovereign went out with balashëv.
At two in the morning of the fourteenth of june, the emperor, having sent for balashëv and read him his letter to napoleon, ordered him to take it and hand it personally to the french emperor. When dispatching balashëv, the emperor repeated to him the words that he would not make peace so long as a single armed enemy remained on russian soil and told him to transmit those words to napoleon. Alexander did not insert them in his letter to napoleon, because with his characteristic tact he felt it would be injudicious to use them at a moment when a last attempt at reconciliation was being made, but he definitely instructed balashëv to repeat them personally to napoleon.
I will send it to the emperor.” Balashëv replied that he had been ordered to hand it personally to the emperor. Davout glanced at him silently and plainly derived pleasure from the signs of agitation and confusion which appeared on balashëv’s face.
“the withdrawal of your army beyond the niemen, sire,” replied balashëv. “so now you want me to retire beyond the niemen—only the niemen?” repeated napoleon, looking straight at balashëv. He went in silence from one corner of the room to the other and again stopped in front of balashëv.
Napoleon met balashëv cheerfully and amiably. He not only showed no sign of constraint or self-reproach on account of his outburst that morning, but, on the contrary, tried to reassure balashëv. “the russians are very devout,” replied balashëv.
“thank god that i can,” replied prince andrew. “andrew! “good-by, andrew!
Barclay de tolly was quartered nearly three miles from the emperor. Anatole kurágin, whom prince andrew had hoped to find with the army, was not there. In the orders issued it was stated, not that the emperor would take command, but only that he would be with the army.
It was not a council of war, but, as it were, a council to elucidate certain questions for the emperor personally. Awkwardly holding up his sword, he addressed chernýshev and asked in german where the emperor was. He nodded hurriedly in reply to chernýshev, and smiled ironically on hearing that the sovereign was inspecting the fortifications that he, pfuel, had planned in accord with his theory.
But besides this feeling of respect, pfuel evoked pity in prince andrew. What had happened was that news (which afterwards proved to be false) had been received during the night of a movement by the french to outflank the drissa camp. Why ask me?” said he.
“rostóv, where are you?” But now the campaign was beginning, and he had to remain with his regiment. I would not have taken my brother pétya there, or even ilyín, who’s a stranger to me but a nice lad, but would have tried to put them somewhere under cover,” nicholas continued to think, as he listened to zdrzhinski.
Mary Even those playing cards behind the partition soon left their game and came over to the samovar, yielding to the general mood of courting mary hendríkhovna. When they had emptied the samovar, rostóv took a pack of cards and proposed that they should play “kings” with mary hendríkhovna.
After ostermann had gone, a command rang out to the uhlans. Drawing himself up, he viewed the field of battle opening out before him from the hill, and with his whole soul followed the movement of the uhlans. Rostóv riding in front gave the order “forward!” and the hussars, with clanking sabers and subdued talk, their horses’ hoofs splashing in the mud, defiled in fours and moved along the broad road planted with birch trees on each side, following the infantry and a battery that had gone on in front.
“andrew sevastyánych!” said rostóv. On all sides, the hussars were busy with the dragoons; one was wounded, but though his face was bleeding, he would not give up his horse; another was perched up behind an hussar with his arms round him; a third was being helped by an hussar to mount his horse. He touched his horse, gave the word of command, and immediately, hearing behind him the tramp of the horses of his deployed squadron, rode at full trot downhill toward the dragoons.
A child knocks itself and runs at once to the arms of its mother or nurse to have the aching spot rubbed or kissed, and it feels better when this is done. And it was even pleasant to be able to show, by disregarding the orders, that she did not believe in medical treatment and did not value her life. But, above all, that thought was kept out of their minds by the fact that they saw they were really useful, as in fact they were to the whole rostóv family.
By agraféna ivánovna’s advice natásha prepared herself not in their own parish, but at a church where, according to the devout agraféna ivánovna, the priest was a man of very severe and lofty life. What would she not have given to bring back even a single day of that time! During the whole week she spent in this way, that feeling grew every day.
Only at prayer did she feel able to think clearly and calmly of prince andrew and anatole, as men for whom her feelings were as nothing compared with her awe and devotion to god. “lord god! When they prayed for the imperial family and the synod, she bowed very low and made the sign of the cross, saying to herself that even if she did not understand, still she could not doubt, and at any rate loved the governing synod and prayed for it.
On the eve of the sunday when the special prayer was read, pierre had promised the rostóvs to bring them, from count rostopchín whom he knew well, both the appeal to the people and the news from the army. That terrible question “why?” Once when making such calculations he wrote down his own name in french, comte pierre besouhoff, but the sum of the numbers did not come right.
“yes, i’ve got it,” said pierre. They say we’re already near smolénsk,” replied pierre. Natásha entered with a softened and agitated expression of face and sat down looking silently at pierre.
“so this is what the emperor is!” thought pétya. He felt that he no longer looked presentable, and feared that if he were now to approach the gentlemen-in-waiting in that plight he would not be admitted to the emperor. But it was impossible to smarten oneself up or move to another place, because of the crowd.
Several approving voices were heard in the crowd. “yes, yes, at thunderclaps!” was repeated approvingly in the back rows of the crowd. He hardened his heart against the senator who was introducing this set and narrow attitude into the deliberations of the nobility.
“the emperor! The emperor has deigned to summon us and the merchants. From the hall of the nobility the emperor went to that of the merchants.
The intention was to make a stand at the drissa camp, but paulucci, aiming at becoming commander in chief, unexpectedly employed his energy to influence alexander, and pfuel’s whole plan was abandoned and the command entrusted to barclay. Bagratión drove up in a carriage to the house occupied by barclay. He wrote to arakchéev, the emperor’s confidant: “it must be as my sovereign pleases, but i cannot work with the minister (meaning barclay).
The theater of war!” said the prince. Yes...” replied the prince peevishly. Princess
It was already late when he rose after sealing the letter. He wished to sleep, but he knew he would not be able to and that most depressing thoughts came to him in bed. He was not meditating, but only deferring the moment of making the effort to lift those legs up and turn over on the bed.
“if there is anything... come back, yákov alpátych! Everything not connected with the execution of the prince’s orders did not interest and did not even exist for alpátych. “you’re welcome, yákov alpátych.
Prince “yes, let them have it,” replied prince andrew. Will you stay here if the enemy occupies the place?” asked prince andrew.
But on the twenty-ninth of july kutúzov received the title of prince. God grant it!” said anna pávlovna. “perhaps the heart took no part in that speech,” said anna pávlovna.
“well?” asked napoleon. While this was taking place in petersburg the french had already passed smolénsk and were drawing nearer and nearer to moscow. Napoleon’s historian thiers, like other of his historians, trying to justify his hero says that he was drawn to the walls of moscow against his will.
Princess “go away, princess! “please come, princess...
“i can see through you and three yards into the ground under you,” he continued, gazing at the floor in front of dron. “what am i to do with the people?” said dron. “stop that!” cried alpátych sternly.
Princess Neither could the architect michael ivánovich, who on being sent for came in with sleepy eyes, tell princess mary anything. “oh, if anyone knew how little anything matters to me now,” she said.
Princess Again princess “but i never told them to come,” said princess mary.
“he had always thought what he said then.” And not the face she had known ever since she could remember and had always seen at a distance, but the timid, feeble face she had seen for the first time quite closely, with all its wrinkles and details, when she stooped near to his mouth to catch what he said. “even then he wanted to tell me what he told me the day he died,” she thought.
One of the men came out of the crowd and went up to rostóv. “very large,” answered rostóv. “impossible!” exclaimed rostóv.
“i’ll show them; i’ll give it to them, the brigands!” said he to himself. “what decision have you been pleased to come to?” said he. “and you all listen to me!” said rostóv to the peasants.
He stopped in the village at the priest’s house in front of which stood the commander in chief’s carriage, and he sat down on the bench at the gate awaiting his serene highness, as everyone now called kutúzov. He had proposed that plan to barclay de tolly and now wished to propose it to kutúzov. “ah, we were friends,” said kutúzov cheerfully.
Prince “but shan’t we have to accept battle?” remarked prince andrew. The priest’s wife, flushing rosy red, caught up the dish she had after all not managed to present at the right moment, though she had so long been preparing for it, and with a low bow offered it to kutúzov.
So it was now with the inhabitants of moscow. “though it is madness to buy anything in moscow now.” And why do they stay on so long in moscow?
“then it will mean that i must go to the army,” said pierre to himself. “but you have been misinformed,” said pierre. In the crowd people began talking loudly, to stifle their feelings of pity as it seemed to pierre.
What the result must be was quite obvious, and yet napoleon offered and kutúzov accepted that battle. Thirdly, as proof that the position on which the battle was fought had not been foreseen and that the shevárdino redoubt was not an advanced post of that position, we have the fact that up to the twenty-fifth, barclay de tolly and bagratión were convinced that the shevárdino redoubt was the left flank of the position, and that kutúzov himself in his report, written in hot haste after the battle, speaks of the shevárdino redoubt as the left flank of the position. Not only was the russian army on the twenty-sixth defended by weak, unfinished entrenchments, but the disadvantage of that position was increased by the fact that the russian commanders—not having fully realized what had happened, namely the loss of our position on the left flank and the shifting of the whole field of the forthcoming battle from right to left—maintained their extended position from the village of nóvoe to utítsa, and consequently had to move their forces from right to left during the battle.
One of the carts with wounded stopped by the side of the road close to pierre. One of the wounded, an old soldier with a bandaged arm who was following the cart on foot, caught hold of it with his sound hand and turned to look at pierre. Ah, i also wanted to ask you where our position is exactly?” said pierre.
The officer, evidently glad of an opportunity for a talk, moved up to pierre. Where?” asked pierre. The crowd round the icon suddenly parted and pressed against pierre.
They say it’s very strong,” said pierre. “what about the left flank?” asked pierre You see...” but borís did not finish, for at that moment kaysárov, kutúzov’s adjutant, came up to pierre.
Bennigsen spoke to a general who approached him, and began explaining the whole position of our troops. In front of túchkov’s troops was some high ground not occupied by troops. Bennigsen loudly criticized this mistake, saying that it was madness to leave a height which commanded the country around unoccupied and to place troops below it.
After he had returned, voices were heard outside the shed. Prince andrew rose hastily, listened to the business they had come about, gave them some further instructions, and was about to dismiss them when he heard a familiar, lisping, voice behind the shed. What a surprise!” said he.
“well, then, you know more than anyone else, be it who it may,” said prince andrew. “oh!” said pierre, looking over his spectacles in perplexity at prince andrew. “i was very glad of his appointment, that’s all i know,” replied prince andrew.
“i must make up for that in moscow,” said napoleon. “sire, i expected nothing less than to find you at the gates of moscow,” replied de beausset. “i am very sorry to have made you travel so far,” said he.
After passing through borodinó the vice-king was driven back to the kolochá and could get no farther; while the divisions of morand and gérard did not take the redoubt but were driven back, and the redoubt was only taken at the end of the battle by the cavalry (a thing probably unforeseen and not heard of by napoleon). At the same time the commander of the artillery of the 1st corps, general pernetti, with thirty cannon of campan’s division and all the howitzers of dessaix’s and friant’s divisions, will move forward, open fire, and overwhelm with shellfire the enemy’s battery, against which will operate:  24 guns of the artillery of the guards 30 guns of campan’s division  and     8 guns of friant’s and dessaix’s divisions —  in all 62 guns. To a proposal made by general campan (who was to attack the flèches) to lead his division through the woods, napoleon agreed, though the so-called duke of elchingen (ney) ventured to remark that a movement through the woods was dangerous and might disorder the division.
The profoundest and most excellent dispositions and orders seem very bad, and every learned militarist criticizes them with looks of importance, when they relate to a battle that has been lost, and the very worst dispositions and orders seem very good, and serious people fill whole volumes to demonstrate their merits, when they relate to a battle that has been won. If it had depended on napoleon’s will to fight or not to fight the battle of borodinó, and if this or that other arrangement depended on his will, then evidently a cold affecting the manifestation of his will might have saved russia, and consequently the valet who omitted to bring napoleon his waterproof boots on the twenty-fourth would have been the savior of russia. Therefore it was not he who killed people.
“have the biscuits and rice been served out to the regiments of the guards?” asked napoleon sternly. “tomorrow we shall have to deal with kutúzov!” said napoleon. “do you remember, sire, what you did me the honor to say at smolénsk?” continued rapp.
There were troops to be seen everywhere, in front and to the right and left. “puff! puff!”—and two clouds arose pushing one another and blending together; and “boom, boom!” came the sounds confirming what the eye had seen. “i’ll go there too, i too!” thought pierre, and followed the general.
“one moment, one moment!” replied the adjutant, and riding up to a stout colonel who was standing in the meadow, he gave him some message and then addressed pierre. “yes, yes,” assented pierre. “really?” said pierre.
On entering the earthwork he noticed that there were men doing something there but that no shots were being fired from the battery. But before he reached the foot of the knoll he was met by a dense crowd of russian soldiers who, stumbling, tripping up, and shouting, ran merrily and wildly toward the battery. Crowds of wounded—some known to pierre and some unknown—russians and french, with faces distorted by suffering, walked, crawled, and were carried on stretchers from the battery.
All orders as to where and when to move the guns, when to send infantry to shoot or horsemen to ride down the russian infantry—all such orders were given by the officers on the spot nearest to the units concerned, without asking either ney, davout, or murat, much less napoleon. The chief action of the battle of borodinó was fought within the seven thousand feet between borodinó and bagratión’s flèches. The soldiers of dessaix’s division advancing against the flèches could only be seen till they had entered the hollow that lay between them and the flèches.
“reinforcements!” thought napoleon to himself. The news that the russians were attacking the left flank of the french army aroused that horror in napoleon. What do you say?” asked napoleon.
Be so good as to ride to general barclay and inform him of my firm intention to attack the enemy tomorrow,” said kutúzov sternly. “wait a little, gentlemen,” said he. Kutúzov ceased chewing and fixed an astonished gaze on wolzogen, as if not understanding what was said to him.
Without moving from that spot or firing a single shot the regiment here lost another third of its men. The adjutant, having obeyed this instruction, approached prince andrew. The horse’s terror infected the men.
Two were occupied, and on the third they placed prince andrew. His curly hair, its color, and the shape of his head seemed strangely familiar to prince andrew. Why is he here?” said prince andrew to himself.
He felt in his own person the sufferings and death he had witnessed on the battlefield. The terrible spectacle of the battlefield covered with dead and wounded, together with the heaviness of his head and the news that some twenty generals he knew personally had been killed or wounded, and the consciousness of the impotence of his once mighty arm, produced an unexpected impression on napoleon who usually liked to look at the killed and wounded, thereby, he considered, testing his strength of mind. “our fire is mowing them down by rows, but still they hold on,” said the adjutant.
The russians did not make that effort because they were not attacking the french. But even had the aim of the russians been to drive the french from their positions, they could not have made this last effort, for all the russian troops had been broken up, there was no part of the russian army that had not suffered in the battle, and though still holding their positions they had lost one half of their army. Clouds gathered and drops of rain began to fall on the dead and wounded, on the frightened, exhausted, and hesitating men, as if to say: “enough, men!
This modern branch of mathematics, unknown to the ancients, when dealing with problems of motion admits the conception of the infinitely small, and so conforms to the chief condition of motion (absolute continuity) and thereby corrects the inevitable error which the human mind cannot avoid when it deals with separate elements of motion instead of examining continuous motion. The historians, replying to this question, lay before us the sayings and doings of a few dozen men in a building in the city of paris, calling these sayings and doings “the revolution”; then they give a detailed biography of napoleon and of certain people favorable or hostile to him; tell of the influence some of these people had on others, and say: that is why this movement took place and those are its laws. To understand the laws of this continuous movement is the aim of history.
And after the adjutant comes the commissary general asking where the stores are to be taken, and the chief of the hospitals asks where the wounded are to go, and a courier from petersburg brings a letter from the sovereign which does not admit of the possibility of abandoning moscow, and the commander in chief’s rival, the man who is undermining him (and there are always not merely one but several such), presents a new project diametrically opposed to that of turning to the kalúga road, and the commander in chief himself needs sleep and refreshment to maintain his energy and a respectable general who has been overlooked in the distribution of rewards comes to complain, and the inhabitants of the district pray to be defended, and an officer sent to inspect the locality comes in and gives a report quite contrary to what was said by the officer previously sent; and a spy, a prisoner, and a general who has been on reconnaissance, all describe the position of the enemy’s army differently. People accustomed to think in that way forget, or do not know, the inevitable conditions which always limit the activities of any commander in chief. It was impossible not to retreat a day’s march, and then in the same way it was impossible not to retreat another and a third day’s march, and at last, on the first of september when the army drew near moscow—despite the strength of the feeling that had arisen in all ranks—the force of circumstances compelled it to retire beyond moscow.
His aim was as clear as daylight to kutúzov: if the defense failed, to throw the blame on kutúzov who had brought the army as far as the sparrow hills without giving battle; if it succeeded, to claim the success as his own; or if battle were not given, to clear himself of the crime of abandoning moscow. The question for him now was: “have i really allowed napoleon to reach moscow, and when did i do so? Kutúzov could not yet admit the possibility of retreating beyond moscow without a battle.
Ermólov, dokhtúrov, and raévski agreed with bennigsen. It seemed to her that it was only a personal struggle between “granddad” and “long-coat” as she termed bennigsen. Bennigsen opened the council with the question:
They went away because for russians there could be no question as to whether things would go well or ill under french rule in moscow. They went away each on his own account, and yet it was only in consequence of their going away that the momentous event was accomplished that will always remain the greatest glory of the russian people. The consciousness that this would be so and would always be so was and is present in the heart of every russian.
What have they been invented for if they can’t arrange that?” said hélène. The first time the young foreigner allowed himself to reproach her, she lifted her beautiful head and, half turning to him, said firmly: In vílna she had formed an intimacy with a young foreign prince.
And so i pray god to have you, my friend, in his holy and powerful keeping—your friend hélène. “you are not taking me unawares, you know,” said he. “even divorce you?” said he.
“oh, yes!” said pierre. Toward the end of the battle of borodinó, pierre, having run down from raévski’s battery a second time, made his way through a gully to knyazkóvo with a crowd of soldiers, reached the dressing station, and seeing blood and hearing cries and groans hurried on, still entangled in the crowds of soldiers. “there now!” said one of the soldiers.
But he died!” thought pierre. “it is dawn,” thought pierre. “yes, one must harness, it is time to harness.”
“what is it?” asked pierre. “and what does he mean by ‘one of my eyes was sore but now i am on the lookout with both’?” asked pierre. I understand!” said pierre.
“but what did klyucharëv do wrong, count?” asked pierre. “that is for me to know, but not for you to ask,” shouted rostopchín. “ah, how do you do, great warrior?” said rostopchín as soon as the short man had left the room.
Knowing that one son was out of danger she became the more anxious about pétya. He got pétya transferred from obolénski’s regiment to bezúkhov’s, which was in training near moscow. Some talked about the moscow militia which, preceded by the clergy, would go to the three hills; others whispered that augustin had been forbidden to leave, that traitors had been seized, that the peasants were rioting and robbing people on their way from moscow, and so on.
He says they may!” whispered natásha. “papa, is it all right—i’ve invited some of the wounded into the house?” said natásha. They may,” he said.
“sónya, wait a bit—we’ll pack everything into these,” said natásha. “don’t, natásha! “the dishes must go in here among the carpets,” said she.
The major-domo to whom these entreaties were addressed, though he was sorry for the wounded, resolutely refused, saying that he dare not even mention the matter to the count. “oh, yes, yes, yes!” said the count hastily. What business is it of yours?” muttered the count angrily.
“altogether such heroism as was displayed by the russian warriors cannot be imagined or adequately praised!” said Isn’t it so, papa?” said he. “and i have a great favor to ask of you, papa,” said he.
How splendid!” said natásha. Sónya jumped out of the coach and ran to the countess. “nothing,” answered the countess.
“at home?” asked pierre. “i will come in all the same, i have to look through the books,” said pierre. Makár alexéevich came twice that evening shuffling along in his galoshes as far as the door and stopped and looked ingratiatingly at pierre.
Kutúzov himself had driven round by side streets to the other side of moscow. The main army was on the other side of moscow or beyond it. “that asiatic city of the innumerable churches, holy moscow!
In place of the former close dark circles formed by thousands of bees sitting back to back and guarding the high mystery of generation, he sees hundreds of dull, listless, and sleepy shells of bees. To the beekeeper’s tap on the wall of the sick hive, instead of the former instant unanimous humming of tens of thousands of bees with their abdomens threateningly compressed, and producing by the rapid vibration of their wings an aerial living sound, the only reply is a disconnected buzzing from different parts of the deserted hive. There are no longer sentinels sounding the alarm with their abdomens raised, and ready to die in defense of the hive.
“but how are you going to stop them?” replied another officer. “come, go in there and drive them out!” shouted the senior officer. Several shopkeepers crowded round the officer.
Went away yesterday at vespertime,” said mávra kuzmínichna cordially. But mávra kuzmínichna stood at the closed gate for some time with moist eyes, pensively swaying her head and feeling an unexpected flow of motherly tenderness and pity for the unknown young officer. Mávra kuzmínichna went to the gate.
On seeing the crowd and the bloodstained man the workman ceased speaking, and with eager curiosity all the bootmakers joined the moving crowd. “why talk nonsense?” rejoined voices in the crowd. “haven’t you robbed people enough—taking their last shirts?” said a voice addressing the publican.
Distressed, offended, and surprised by all this, rostopchín had returned to moscow. This letter requested the count to send police officers to guide the troops through the town, as the army was retreating to the ryazán road beyond moscow. All that night count rostopchín issued orders, for which people came to him from all parts of moscow.
I don’t need you to tell me what to do!” exclaimed rostopchín angrily. Let the traitor perish and not disgrace the russian name!” shouted rostopchín. It was count rostopchín.
The bells in the krémlin were ringing for vespers, and this sound troubled the french. He grasped a musket and took aim at the french. “these wretches had occupied the sacred citadel, having supplied themselves with guns from the arsenal, and fired” (the wretches) “at the french.
Bonaparte!...” shouted makár alexéevich. When, having bought the coat merely with the object of taking part among the people in the defense of moscow, pierre had met the rostóvs and natásha had said to him: “are you remaining in moscow?... The french had already entered moscow.
“who is that man?” said he, looking sternly at pierre. The soldiers went out again, and the orderly, who had meanwhile had time to visit the kitchen, came up to his officer. Forgetting his intention of concealing his knowledge of french, pierre, snatching away the pistol and throwing it down, ran up to the officer and addressed him in french.
Had this man been endowed with the slightest capacity for perceiving the feelings of others, and had he at all understood what pierre’s feelings were, the latter would probably have left him, but the man’s animated obtuseness to everything other than himself disarmed pierre. He wrapped the bottle up to its neck in a table napkin and poured out wine for himself and for pierre. “i was there,” said pierre.
The rostóv party spent the night at mytíshchi, fourteen miles from moscow. They had started so late on the first of september, the road had been so blocked by vehicles and troops, so many things had been forgotten for which servants were sent back, that they had decided to spend that night at a place three miles out of moscow. The next morning they woke late and were again delayed so often that they only got as far as great mytíshchi.
“what’s burning?” asked natásha. Both the countess and sónya understood that, naturally, neither moscow nor the burning of moscow nor anything else could seem of importance to natásha. I’ll lie down at once,” said natásha.
He felt that he had to balance carefully (though it was difficult) so that this airy structure should not collapse; but nevertheless it kept collapsing and again slowly rising to the sound of whispered rhythmic music—“it stretches, stretches, spreading out and stretching,” said prince andrew to himself. “forgive me!”  “i love you,” said prince andrew. It is possible to love someone dear to you with human love, but an enemy can only be loved by divine love.
“but where was she left?” asked pierre. “show me the way, show me, i... i’ll do it,” gasped pierre rapidly. “what does this fellow want?” shouted one of them referring to pierre.
She’s thin, with long teeth,” said pierre. But his comrade, throwing down the boots and drawing his sword, moved threateningly toward pierre. “ah, a weapon?” said the officer and turned to the barefooted soldier who had been arrested with pierre.
She is very unfortunate!” added anna pávlovna. The empress elisabeth, however, when asked what instructions she would be pleased to give—with her characteristic russian patriotism had replied that she could give no directions about state institutions for that was the affair of the sovereign, but as far as she personally was concerned she would be the last to quit petersburg. “i think it is delightful,” he said, referring to a diplomatic note that had been sent to vienna with some austrian banners captured from the french by wittgenstein, “the hero of petropol” as he was then called in petersburg.
Next day during the service at the palace church in honor of the emperor’s birthday, prince volkónski was called out of the church and received a dispatch from prince kutúzov. “what did i tell about kutúzov?” The courtiers suffered because of the suffering the suspense occasioned the emperor.
The emperor listened in silence, not looking at michaud. “colonel, i always require it,” replied the emperor. This messenger was michaud, a frenchman who did not know russian, but who was quoique étranger, russe de cœur et d’âme, * as he said of himself.  *
There were a great many ladies and some of nicholas’ Among these was the governor’s wife herself, who welcomed rostóv as a near relative and called him “nicholas.” Had he been asked what he thought of the state of russia, he would have said that it was not his business to think about it, that kutúzov and others were there for that purpose, but that he had heard that the regiments were to be made up to their full strength, that fighting would probably go on for a long time yet, and that things being so it was quite likely he might be in command of a regiment in a couple of years’ time.
“come, nicholas! “i rescued such a lot of them!” said nicholas. “very pleased, mon cher,” she then said, holding out her hand to nicholas.
Nicholas trying to change the subject—they talked of the governor’s kind wife, of nicholas’ relations, and of princess mary’s. He took the boy on his knee, played with him, and looked round at princess mary. As she was in mourning princess mary did not go out into society, and nicholas did not think it the proper thing to visit her again; but all the same the governor’s wife went on with her matchmaking, passing on to nicholas the flattering things princess mary said of him and vice versa, and insisting on his declaring himself to princess mary.
“and i have known so many cases of a splinter wound” (the gazette said it was a shell) “either proving fatal at once or being very slight,” continued nicholas. Why was i in such a hurry with sónya?” To be free, released from sónya...
The countess let no occasion slip of making humiliating or cruel allusions to sónya. The bustle and terror of the rostóvs’ last days in moscow stifled the gloomy thoughts that oppressed sónya. Despite all the terror of what had happened during those last days and during the first days of their journey, this feeling that providence was intervening in her personal affairs cheered sónya.
These first days, before the eighth of september when the prisoners were had up for a second examination, were the hardest of all for pierre. All the russians confined with pierre were men of the lowest class and, recognizing him as a gentleman, they all avoided him, more especially as he spoke french. They asked, repeating their first question, which he had declined to answer.
“i know that man,” he said in a cold, measured tone, evidently calculated to frighten pierre. For some seconds they looked at one another, and that look saved pierre. It seemed that he had quite forgotten pierre.
The moment they laid hands on him he sprang aside in terror and clutched at pierre. The prisoners were placed in a certain order, according to the list (pierre was sixth), and were led to the post. With hurried hands the soldiers blindfolded them, drawing the sacks over their heads, and bound them to the post.
In the darkness some twenty different men surrounded pierre. Having unwound the string that tied the band on one leg, he carefully coiled it up and immediately set to work on the other leg, glancing up at pierre. Then he took out a knife, cut something, closed the knife, placed it under the head of his bed, and, seating himself comfortably, clasped his arms round his lifted knees and fixed his eyes on pierre.
And pierre began to feel in the same way toward karatáev. He liked to hear the folk tales one of the soldiers used to tell of an evening (they were always the same), but most of all he liked to hear stories of real life. Every word and action of his was the manifestation of an activity unknown to him, which was his life.
Princess “this is my niece,” said the count, introducing sónya—“you don’t know her, princess?” I think you must be tired, princess.”
“how are you, mary? “and so you have met count nicholas, mary?” Princess
The countess and sónya cried from pity for natásha and because he was no more. All, everything that i understand, i understand only because i love. Everything is, everything exists, only because i love.
Even foreign historians, including the french, acknowledge the genius of the russian commanders when they speak of that flank march. “this is the cause!” In the first place it is hard to understand where the profundity and genius of this movement lay, for not much mental effort was needed to see that the best position for an army when it is not being attacked is where there are most provisions; and even a dull boy of thirteen could have guessed that the best position for an army after its retreat from moscow in 1812 was on the kalúga road.
At tarútino kutúzov received what was almost a reprimand from the emperor for having moved his army along the ryazán road, and the emperor’s letter indicated to him the very position he had already occupied near kalúga. Having rolled like a ball in the direction of the impetus given by the whole campaign and by the battle of borodinó, the russian army—when the strength of that impetus was exhausted and no fresh push was received—assumed the position natural to it. Suddenly the beast was heard to moan.
As a result of the hostility between kutúzov and bennigsen, his chief of staff, the presence of confidential representatives of the emperor, and these transfers, a more than usually complicated play of parties was going on among the staff of the army. 2 moscow has been in the hands of the enemy. Remember that you have still to answer to our offended country for the loss of moscow.
Milorádovich too was away, but here he was told that he had gone to a ball at general kíkin’s and that ermólov was probably there too. The officer felt that by arriving with important orders at such a moment he was doubly to blame, and he would have preferred to wait; but one of the generals espied him and, hearing what he had come about, informed ermólov. “you think he went off just by chance?” said a comrade, who was on the staff that evening, to the officer of the horse guards, referring to ermólov.
He sent for an officer. Kutúzov began, but checked himself immediately and sent for a senior officer. His wrath, once expended, did not return, and blinking feebly he listened to excuses and self-justifications (ermólov did not come to see him till the next day) and to the insistence of bennigsen, konovnítsyn, and toll that the movement that had miscarried should be executed next day.
One of the first bullets killed him, and other bullets killed many of his men. Thus he stumbled on bagovút’s corps in a wood when it was already broad daylight, though the corps should long before have joined orlóv-denísov. “oh, it is really too late,” said count orlóv, looking at the camp.
It would be difficult and even impossible to imagine any result more opportune than the actual outcome of this battle. He did not advance. “the word attack is always on your tongue, but you don’t see that we are unable to execute complicated maneuvers,” said he to milorádovich who asked permission to advance.
Had napoleon’s aim been to destroy his army, the most skillful strategist could hardly have devised any series of actions that would so completely have accomplished that purpose, independently of anything the russian army might do. Napoleon, the man of genius, did this! But to say that he destroyed his army because he wished to, or because he was very stupid, would be as unjust as to say that he had brought his troops to moscow because he wished to and because he was very clever and a genius.
The government has appointed two commissaries general, or chiefs of police, and twenty commissaries or captains of wards have been appointed to the different wards of the city. His majesty the emperor and king protects them, and considers no one among you his enemy except those who disobey his orders. The emperor rode through the streets to comfort the inhabitants, and, despite his preoccupation with state affairs, himself visited the theaters that were established by his order.
That army, like a herd of cattle run wild and trampling underfoot the provender which might have saved it from starvation, disintegrated and perished with each additional day it remained in moscow. And yet with his experience of war he did not order all the superfluous vehicles to be burned, as he had done with those of a certain marshal when approaching moscow. “the emperor is extremely displeased that despite the strict orders to stop pillage, parties of marauding guards are continually seen returning to the krémlin.
(their name for pierre.) Some of the prisoners who had heard pierre talking to the corporal immediately asked what the frenchman had said. The frenchman insisted on having the pieces returned that were left over and asked pierre to translate what he said.
The absence of suffering, the satisfaction of one’s needs and consequent freedom in the choice of one’s occupation, that is, of one’s way of life, now seemed to pierre to be indubitably man’s highest happiness. The satisfaction of one’s needs—good food, cleanliness, and freedom—now that he was deprived of all this, seemed to pierre to constitute perfect happiness; and the choice of occupation, that is, of his way of life—now that that was so restricted—seemed to him such an easy matter that he forgot that a superfluity of the comforts of life destroys all joy in satisfying one’s needs, while great freedom in the choice of occupation—such freedom as his wealth, his education, and his social position had given him in his own life—is just what makes the choice of occupation insolubly difficult and destroys the desire and possibility of having an occupation. That feeling of alertness and of readiness for anything was still further strengthened in him by the high opinion his fellow prisoners formed of him soon after his arrival at the shed.
You may be better off than we others,” said pierre. “what now?” the officer asked with a cold look as if not recognizing pierre. “pass on, pass on!” he continued without looking at pierre.
“ha-ha-ha!” laughed pierre. “and all that is me, all that is within me, and it is all i!” thought pierre. Davout’s troops, in whose charge were the prisoners, were crossing the crimean bridge and some were already debouching into the kalúga road.
Ill with fever he went to smolénsk with twenty thousand men to defend the town against napoleon’s whole army. And the quiet little dokhtúrov rode thither, and borodinó became the greatest glory of the russian army. But only broussier had been there at that time and now the whole french army was there.
“peter petróvich!” said he. Napoleon is at formínsk,” said bolkhovítinov, unable to see in the dark who was speaking but guessing by the voice that it was not konovnítsyn. This was konovnítsyn.
Patience and time are my warriors, my champions,” thought kutúzov. But these were only suppositions, which seemed important to the younger men but not to kutúzov. Continual maneuvers, continual advances!” thought he.
Dokhtúrov went to málo-yaroslávets, but kutúzov lingered with the main army and gave orders for the evacuation of kalúga—a retreat beyond which town seemed to him quite possible. An external shock was needed to overcome that shame, and this shock came in due time. When les enfants du don might so easily have taken the emperor himself in the midst of his army, it was clear that there was nothing for it but to fly as fast as possible along the nearest, familiar road.
But they did not cut off or overthrow anybody and the french army, closing up more firmly at the danger, continued, while steadily melting away, to pursue its fatal path to smolénsk. The promised land for the french during their advance had been moscow, during their retreat it was their native land. So both those who knew and those who did not know deceived themselves, and pushed on to smolénsk as to a promised land.
That was a misfortune no one could remedy, for the peasants of the district burned their hay rather than let the french have it. The burning of towns and villages, the retreats after battles, the blow dealt at borodinó and the renewed retreat, the burning of moscow, the capture of marauders, the seizure of transports, and the guerrilla war were all departures from the rules. But then, in 1812, the french gain a victory near moscow.
The french, retreating in 1812—though according to tactics they should have separated into detachments to defend themselves—congregated into a mass because the spirit of the army had so fallen that only the mass held the army together. Only then, expressing known historic facts by equations and comparing the relative significance of this factor, can we hope to define the unknown. One of the most obvious and advantageous departures from the so-called laws of war is the action of scattered groups against men pressed together in a mass.
A sacristan commanded one party which captured several hundred prisoners in the course of a month; and there was vasílisa, the wife of a village elder, who slew hundreds of the french. By the end of october this kind of warfare had taken definite shape: it had become clear to all what could be ventured against the french and what could not. Through these forests denísov and his party rode all day, sometimes keeping well back in them and sometimes coming to the very edge, but never losing sight of the moving french.
To weturn at once?” asked denísov. “well, all wight,” said denísov. Beside denísov rode an esaul, * denísov’s fellow worker, also in felt cloak and sheepskin cap, and riding a large sleek don horse.
A cossack dismounted, lifted the boy down, and took him to denísov. “the wascal!” said denísov. From the spot where the peasant was standing they could see the french.
It was tíkhon. “oh, i took one all right,” said tíkhon. “oh, but he was a regular good-for-nothing,” said tíkhon.
“i’ll call him,” said pétya. “he’s a smart lad,” said an hussar standing near pétya. “ah, c’est vous!” said pétya.
But we must know what troops they are and their numbers,” said dólokhov. You’ll take me, won’t you?” he said, turning to dólokhov. “yes, and where do you put the others?” inquired dólokhov.
“bonjour, messieurs!” * said dólokhov loudly and clearly.  * There was a stir among the officers in the shadow beyond the fire, and one tall, long-necked officer, walking round the fire, came up to dólokhov. “will they bring our horses or not?” thought pétya, instinctively drawing nearer to dólokhov.
“no, i am used to this,” said pétya. The cossack bent forward from under the wagon to get a closer look at pétya. “because i am accustomed to doing everything accurately,” said pétya.
“well, is ev’wything weady?” asked denísov. His horse by habit made as if to nip his leg, but pétya leaped quickly into the saddle unconscious of his own weight and, turning to look at the hussars starting in the darkness behind him, rode up to denísov. Denísov talked in whispers with the esaul and the cossacks rode past pétya and denísov.
During the whole of their march from moscow no fresh orders had been issued by the french authorities concerning the party of prisoners among whom was pierre. The prisoners were more burdensome to the escort than even the cavalry saddles or junot’s baggage. On the twenty-second of october that party was no longer with the same troops and baggage trains with which it had left moscow.
Well, one night the convicts were gathered just as we are, with the old man among them. ‘i have taken six lives,’ he says (he was a great sinner), ‘but what i am most sorry for is this old man. The paper arrived and they began to look for the old man.
Why is it howling?” thought pierre. A pleasant feeling of excitement and an expectation of something joyful and solemn was aroused among the soldiers of the convoy and the prisoners. Pierre caught a glimpse of a man in a three-cornered hat with a tranquil look on his handsome, plump, white face.
“how simple and clear it is,” thought pierre. “ah, he’s come?” said pierre. “the cossacks!” one of them shouted, and a moment later a crowd of russians surrounded pierre.
November 9: twenty miles from smolénsk. After the twenty-eighth of october when the frosts began, the flight of the french assumed a still more tragic character, with men freezing, or roasting themselves to death at the campfires, while carriages with people dressed in furs continued to drive past, carrying away the property that had been stolen by the emperor, kings, and dukes; but the process of the flight and disintegration of the french army went on essentially as before. Still less did that genius, napoleon, know it, for no one issued any orders to him.
Then for three days separate portions of the french army—first murat’s (the vice-king’s), then davout’s, and then ney’s—ran, as it were, the gauntlet of the russian army. From orshá they fled farther along the road to vílna, still playing at blindman’s buff with the pursuing army. At the berëzina they again became disorganized, many were drowned and many surrendered, but those who got across the river fled farther.
“it is great.”  * (2) that it is great. When it is impossible to stretch the very elastic threads of historical ratiocination any farther, when actions are clearly contrary to all that humanity calls right or even just, the historians produce a saving conception of “greatness.”
The source of this contradiction lies in the fact that the historians studying the events from the letters of the sovereigns and the generals, from memoirs, reports, projects, and so forth, have attributed to this last period of the war of 1812 an aim that never existed, namely that of cutting off and capturing napoleon with his marshals and his army. Thirdly, it would have been senseless to sacrifice one’s own troops in order to destroy the french army, which without external interference was destroying itself at such a rate that, though its path was not blocked, it could not carry across the frontier more than it actually did in december, namely a hundredth part of the original army. One can cut off a slice of bread, but not an army.
And i said it so awkwardly and stupidly! How does it hurt him?” thought natásha. She was gazing in the direction in which he had gone—to the other side of life.
They just live their own old, quiet, and commonplace life,” thought natásha. “natásha! “natásha, he is no more, no more!”
She spoke so well today,” said princess mary. Sónya and the count tried to replace natásha but could not. “is she like him?” thought natásha.
The rapidity of the russian pursuit was just as destructive to our army as the flight of the french was to theirs. The aim of the russian army was to pursue the french. Only by following at some distance could one cut across the zigzag path of the french.
In reply to lauriston’s proposal of peace, he said: When count rostopchín at the yaúza bridge galloped up to kutúzov with personal reproaches for having caused the destruction of moscow, and said: “how was it you promised not to abandon moscow without a battle?” What did it matter to him—who then alone amid a senseless crowd understood the whole tremendous significance of what was happening—what did it matter to him whether rostopchín attributed the calamities of moscow to him or to himself?
Most of them were disfigured by frost-bitten noses and cheeks, and nearly all had red, swollen and festering eyes. He puckered his face, screwed up his eyes, and pensively swayed his head. At another spot he noticed a russian soldier laughingly patting a frenchman on the shoulder, saying something to him in a friendly manner, and kutúzov with the same expression on his face again swayed his head.
Some twenty men of the sixth company who were on their way into the village joined the haulers, and the wattle wall, which was about thirty-five feet long and seven feet high, moved forward along the village street, swaying, pressing upon and cutting the shoulders of the gasping men. The soldier who had been struck groaned and wiped his face, which had been scratched till it bled by his falling against the wattle. The commander rode up to his hut.
“i’ve had an eye on him this long while,” said the other. “and you, jackdaw, go and fetch some wood!” said he to another soldier. “well, he’s a poor sort of soldier....”
Meanwhile morel was sitting in the best place by the fire, surrounded by the soldiers. “you won’t do it again, eh?” said one of the soldiers, winking and turning mockingly to ramballe. “a bear, lads,” said one of the men.
The farther they fled the more wretched became the plight of the remnant, especially after the berëzina, on which (in consequence of the petersburg plan) special hopes had been placed by the russians, and the keener grew the passions of the russian commanders, who blamed one another and kutúzov most of all. He had taken part in the beginning of the campaign but had subsequently been removed from the army by kutúzov. The contemptuously respectful attitude of the younger men to the old man in his dotage was expressed in the highest degree by the behavior of chichagóv, who knew of the accusations that were being directed against kutúzov.
With this object his staff was gradually reconstructed and its real strength removed and transferred to the emperor. This being the field marshal’s frame of mind he was naturally regarded as merely a hindrance and obstacle to the impending war. Alexander i was as necessary for the movement of the peoples from east to west and for the refixing of national frontiers as kutúzov had been for the salvation and glory of russia.
He could not see an aim, for he now had faith—not faith in any kind of rule, or words, or ideas, but faith in an ever-living, ever-manifest god. That search for an aim had been simply a search for god, and suddenly in his captivity he had learned not by words or reasoning but by direct feeling what his nurse had told him long ago: that god is here and everywhere. He remembered a general impression of the misfortunes and sufferings of people and of being worried by the curiosity of officers and generals who questioned him, he also remembered his difficulty in procuring a conveyance and horses, and above all he remembered his incapacity to think and feel all that time.
His servants too—terénty and váska—in their own way noticed the change that had taken place in pierre. There were several prisoners from the french army in orël, and the doctor brought one of them, a young italian, to see pierre. “if all russians are in the least like you, it is sacrilege to fight such a nation,” he said to pierre.
It would be difficult to explain why and whither ants whose heap has been destroyed are hurrying: some from the heap dragging bits of rubbish, larvae, and corpses, others back to the heap, or why they jostle, overtake one another, and fight, and it would be equally difficult to explain what caused the russians after the departure of the french to throng to the place that had formerly been moscow. Cookshops and taverns were opened in partially burned houses. The higher authorities and the police organized the distribution of goods left behind by the french.
Is it possible that the meaning of life was not disclosed to him before he died?” thought pierre. Perhaps she will see me,” said pierre. “no, it’s only the unexpectedness of it,” thought pierre.
“yes, is there a family free from sorrow now?” said pierre, addressing natásha. “what can one say or think of as a consolation?” said pierre. Natásha without waiting for princess mary to finish again looked inquiringly at pierre.
“but i am three times as rich as before,” returned pierre. “it’s not true, not true!” cried pierre. “to tell pierre?
“but what about my heirs?” said pierre. “how easy he thinks it,” thought pierre. “do you know her?” asked pierre.
“i may have appeared strange and queer then,” he thought, “but i was not so mad as i seemed. That was the only doubt often troubling pierre. At times everybody seemed to him to be occupied with one thing only—his future happiness.
“yes,” whispered natásha. Yes, mary, And with a sad and rather stern look she told natásha all that pierre had said.
If that activity displeases somebody, this is only because it does not agree with his limited understanding of what is good. It would take a dozen pages to enumerate all the reproaches the historians address to him, based on their knowledge of what is good for humanity. But even if we assume that fifty years ago alexander i was mistaken in his view of what was good for the people, we must inevitably assume that the historian who judges alexander will also after the lapse of some time turn out to be mistaken in his view of what is good for humanity.
If we assume as the historians do that great men lead humanity to the attainment of certain ends—the greatness of russia or of france, the balance of power in europe, the diffusion of the ideas of the revolution, general progress, or anything else—then it is impossible to explain the facts of history without introducing the conceptions of chance and genius. What is genius? I see a force producing effects beyond the scope of ordinary human agencies; i do not understand why this occurs and i talk of genius.
For the peoples of the west to be able to make their warlike movement to moscow it was necessary: (1) that they should form themselves into a military group of a size able to endure a collision with the warlike military group of the east, (2) that they should abandon all established traditions and customs, and (3) that during their military movement they should have at their head a man who could justify to himself and to them the deceptions, robberies, and murders which would have to be committed during that movement. The king of prussia sends his wife to seek the great man’s mercy; the emperor of austria considers it a favor that this man receives a daughter of the caesars into his bed; the pope, the guardian of all that the nations hold sacred, utilizes religion for the aggrandizement of the great man. The commencement of that movement was the movement from west to east.
As the sun and each atom of ether is a sphere complete in itself, and yet at the same time only a part of a whole too immense for man to comprehend, so each individual has within himself his own aims and yet has them to serve a general purpose incomprehensible to man. Another, observing the migration of plants, notices that the bee helps in this work, and may say that in this lies the purpose of the bee. During the national war he was inactive because he was not needed.
The countess could not conceive of life without the luxurious conditions she had been used to from childhood and, unable to realize how hard it was for her son, kept demanding now a carriage (which they did not keep) to send for a friend, now some expensive article of food for herself, or wine for her son, or money to buy a present as a surprise for natásha or sónya, or for nicholas himself. But he regarded such a refusal as a slur on his father’s memory, which he held sacred, and therefore would not hear of refusing and accepted the inheritance together with the obligation to pay the debts. Not only did he not save anything, but to comply with his mother’s demands he even incurred some small debts.
“good-by, princess!” said he. Mary gazed intently into his eyes with her own luminous ones as he said this. “i thought you would allow me to tell you this,” she said.
“not in the least; it never entered my head and i wouldn’t do that for their good! “and fairness, of course,” he added, “for if the peasant is naked and hungry and has only one miserable horse, he can do no good either for himself or for me.” He was as careful of the sowing and reaping of the peasants’ hay and corn as of his own, and few landowners had their crops sown and harvested so early and so well, or got so good a return, as did nicholas.
“you know,” said natásha, “you have read the gospels a great deal—there is a passage in them that just fits sónya.” But what is the matter with you, mary?” he suddenly asked. “is it just sentimentality, old wives’ tales, or is she right?” he asked himself.
“then i’m not mistaken,” thought countess mary. “that’s always the way,” thought countess mary. He grew silent, and quiet ensued for a moment, terrible to countess mary.
Natásha did not follow the golden rule advocated by clever folk, especially by the french, which says that a girl should not let herself go when she marries, should not neglect her accomplishments, should be even more careful of her appearance than when she was unmarried, and should fascinate her husband as much as she did before he became her husband. If the purpose of food is nourishment and the purpose of marriage is the family, the whole question resolves itself into not eating more than one can digest, and not having more wives or husbands than are needed for the family—that is, one wife or one husband. Natásha needed a husband.
Denísov, who had come out of the study into the dancing room with his pipe, now for the first time recognized the old natásha. “now, pierre nurses them splendidly,” said natásha. Come along, pierre!”
He did not want to be an hussar or a knight of st. george like his uncle nicholas; he wanted to be learned, wise, and kind like pierre. “adèle tempted me: she kept on telling me to buy it,” returned pierre. The old ladies were pleased with the presents he brought them, and especially that natásha would now be herself again.
Nicholas beside the stove at a small table where his tea was handed to him; mílka, the old gray borzoi bitch (daughter of the first mílka), with a quite gray face and large black eyes that seemed more prominent than ever, lay on the armchair beside him; denísov, whose curly hair, mustache, and whiskers had turned half gray, sat beside countess Mary with his general’s tunic unbuttoned; pierre sat between his wife and the old countess. Natásha saw by pierre’s animation that his visit had been interesting and that he had much to tell them but dare not say it before the old countess.
Countess mary glanced at him and turned to pierre. Nicholas and denísov rose, asked for their pipes, smoked, went to fetch more tea from sónya—who sat weary but resolute at the samovar—and questioned pierre. And so he thought it necessary to take an interest in these things and to question pierre.
Must tell nicholas this. Next summer i’ll take him to petersburg,” said nicholas. She did not compare them with him, but compared her feeling for them with her feeling for him, and felt with regret that there was something lacking in her feeling for young nicholas.
“no, the chief point is that to nicholas ideas and discussions are an amusement—almost a pastime,” said pierre. Little nicholas turned to look at pierre but pierre was no longer there. He approved of me and of uncle pierre.
What made those people burn houses and slay their fellow men? At that time there was in france a man of genius—napoleon. In russia there was an emperor, alexander, who decided to restore order in europe and therefore fought against napoleon.
The ideas of the revolution and the general temper of the age produced napoleon’s power. Writers of universal history who deal with all the nations seem to recognize how erroneous is the specialist historians’ view of the force which produces events. According to this view the power of historical personages, represented as the product of many forces, can no longer, it would seem, be regarded as a force that itself produces events.
The biographies and special national histories are like paper money. The writers of universal histories and of the history of culture are like people who, recognizing the defects of paper money, decide to substitute for it money made of metal that has not the specific gravity of gold. To refute him someone would have to prove to him that there is no devil, or another peasant would have to explain to him that it is not the devil but a german, who moves the locomotive.
Having abandoned the conception of the ancients as to the divine subjection of the will of a nation to some chosen man and the subjection of that man’s will to the deity, history cannot without contradictions take a single step till it has chosen one of two things: either a return to the former belief in the direct intervention of the deity in human affairs or a definite explanation of the meaning of the force producing historical events and termed “power.” A return to the first is impossible, the belief has been destroyed; and so it is essential to explain what is meant by power. If the source of power lies neither in the physical nor in the moral qualities of him who possesses it, it must evidently be looked for elsewhere—in the relation to the people of the man who wields the power.
What is power? This is what historians of the first class say—those who assume the unconditional transference of the people’s will. On condition that that person expresses the will of the whole people.
Having restored the condition of time under which all events occur, we find that a command is executed only when it is related to a corresponding series of events. The noncommissioned officers (of whom there are fewer) perform the action itself less frequently than the soldiers, but they already give commands. An officer still less often acts directly himself, but commands still more frequently.
Without such justification there would be no reply to the simplest question that presents itself when examining each historical event. The man who worked most with his hands could not think so much about what he was doing, or reflect on or command what would result from the common activity; while the man who commanded more would evidently work less with his hands on account of his greater verbal activity. Just the same is done by a concourse of people, allowing those who do not take a direct part in the activity to devise considerations, justifications, and surmises concerning their collective activity.
But the law of history relates to man. How should the past life of nations and of humanity be regarded—as the result of the free, or as the result of the constrained, activity of man? Everyone understands that this illogical reply is an irrefutable demonstration of freedom.
(3) his relation to the causes leading to the action. The farther i go back in memory, or what is the same thing the farther i go forward in my judgment, the more doubtful becomes my belief in the freedom of my action. But if even one of the innumerable causes of the act is known to us we recognize a certain element of necessity and are less insistent on punishment for the crime, or the acknowledgment of the merit of the virtuous act, or the freedom of the apparently original action.
But even if—imagining a man quite exempt from all influences, examining only his momentary action in the present, unevoked by any cause—we were to admit so infinitely small a remainder of inevitability as equaled zero, we should even then not have arrived at the conception of complete freedom in man, for a being uninfluenced by the external world, standing outside of time and independent of cause, is no longer a man. But besides this, even if, admitting the remaining minimum of freedom to equal zero, we assumed in some given case—as for instance in that of a dying man, an unborn babe, or an idiot—complete absence of freedom, by so doing we should destroy the very conception of man in the case we are examining, for as soon as there is no freedom there is also no man. In the same way we can never imagine the action of a man quite devoid of freedom and entirely subject to the law of inevitability.
Xi  history examines the manifestations of man’s free will in connection with the external world in time and in dependence on cause, that is, it defines this freedom by the laws of reason, and so history is a science only in so far as this free will is defined by those laws. The same is done by the natural sciences: leaving aside the question of cause, they seek for laws. To discover and define those laws is the problem of history.
“it is true that we are not conscious of our dependence, but by admitting our free will we arrive at absurdity, while by admitting our dependence on the external world, on time, and on cause, we arrive at laws.” But even after the discovery of the law of copernicus the ptolemaic worlds were still studied for a long time. By refuting these new laws the former view of history might have been retained; but without refuting them it would seem impossible to continue studying historic events as the results of man’s free will.
