After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor alice! She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, “which way? Which way?”, holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size: to be sure, this generally happens when one eats cake, but alice had got so much into the way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen, that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the common way. “dinah’ll miss me very much to-night, i should think!” “i wonder how many miles i’ve fallen by this time?” she said aloud.
Poor alice! She knows such a very little! Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, “and in that case i can go back by railway,” she said to herself. The mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing. I am very tired of swimming about here, o mouse!”
Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “i am older than you, and must know better;” and this alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said. “what else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turning to alice. “only a thimble,” said alice sadly. “you are not attending!” said the mouse to alice severely. “i didn’t mean it!” pleaded poor alice.
And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘miss alice! “what a number of cucumber-frames there must be!” thought alice. So bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said alice to herself. I wouldn’t be in bill’s place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but i think i can kick a little!” The rabbit sends in a little bill
The other side of what?” thought alice to herself. “what can all that green stuff be?” said alice. “i’m not a serpent!” said alice indignantly. “i haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” said alice. “but i’m not a serpent, i tell you!” said alice.
“but what am i to do?” said alice. Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, “just like a star-fish,” thought alice. “if you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,” said alice, seriously, “i’ll have nothing more to do with you. The cat only grinned when it saw alice. “that depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the cat.  “i don’t much care where—” said alice.
“i don’t quite understand you,” she said, as politely as she could. “then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it,” said alice angrily. “come, we shall have some fun now!” thought alice. “exactly so,” said alice. “have you guessed the riddle yet?” the hatter said, turning to alice again.
“you’d better not talk!” said five. When the procession came opposite to alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the queen said severely “who is this?” I said ‘what for?’” She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself The moment alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said.
“i make you a present of everything i’ve said as yet.” So they went up to the mock turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing. Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, “thank you, sir, for your interesting story,” but she could not help thinking there must be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing. “it’s a mineral, i think,” said alice. “pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,” said alice.
“that generally takes some time,” interrupted the gryphon. “—you advance twice—”  “each with a lobster as a partner!” cried the gryphon. “of course,” the mock turtle said: “advance twice, set to partners—”  “—change lobsters, and retire in same order,” continued the gryphon. “—as far out to sea as you can—”  “swim after them!” screamed the gryphon. “come, let’s try the first figure!” said the mock turtle to the gryphon.
“fourteenth of march, i think it was,” he said. Alice watched the white rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like, “—for they haven’t got much evidence yet,” she said to herself. “herald, read the accusation!” said the king. “you ought to have finished,” said the king. “i’m a poor man, your majesty,” the hatter began, in a trembling voice, “—and i hadn’t begun my tea—not above a week or so—and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin—and the twinkling of the tea—”  “the twinkling of the what?” said the king.
“the trial cannot proceed,” said the king in a very grave voice, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—all,” he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at alice as he said so. “do i look like it?” he said. “what do you know about this business?” the king said to alice. “nothing,” said alice. “nothing whatever,” said alice.
