Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, “and in that case i can go back by railway,” she said to herself. The mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “i am older than you, and must know better;” and this alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said. “i don’t quite understand you,” she said, as politely as she could. “you’d better not talk!” said five. When the procession came opposite to alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the queen said severely “who is this?” I said ‘what for?’” She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself The moment alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said. “i make you a present of everything i’ve said as yet.” So they went up to the mock turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing. Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, “thank you, sir, for your interesting story,” but she could not help thinking there must be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing. “fourteenth of march, i think it was,” he said. Alice watched the white rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like, “—for they haven’t got much evidence yet,” she said to herself. “the trial cannot proceed,” said the king in a very grave voice, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—all,” he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at alice as he said so. “do i look like it?” he said. After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor alice! Poor alice! “what else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turning to alice. “only a thimble,” said alice sadly. “you are not attending!” said the mouse to alice severely. “i didn’t mean it!” pleaded poor alice. And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘miss alice! Thought alice. So bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said alice to herself. The other side of what?” thought alice to herself. “what can all that green stuff be?” said alice. “i’m not a serpent!” said alice indignantly. “i haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” said alice. “but i’m not a serpent, i tell you!” said alice. “but what am i to do?” said alice. Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, “just like a star-fish,” thought alice. “if you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,” said alice, seriously, “i’ll have nothing more to do with you. The cat only grinned when it saw alice. “that depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the cat.  “i don’t much care where—” said alice. “how do you know i’m mad?” said alice. “i suppose so,” said alice. “i call it purring, not growling,” said alice. “then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it,” said alice angrily. “come, we shall have some fun now!” thought alice. “exactly so,” said alice. “have you guessed the riddle yet?” the hatter said, turning to alice again. “i don’t know what you mean,” said alice. “i’ve heard something like it,” said alice. “how dreadfully savage!” exclaimed alice. “then you keep moving round, i suppose?” said alice. “yes, please do!” pleaded alice. “take some more tea,” the march hare said to alice, very earnestly. “nobody asked your opinion,” said alice. “they were learning to draw,” the dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; “and they drew all manner of things—everything that begins with an m—”  “why with an m?” said alice. “yes!” shouted alice. “what for?” said alice. “a cat may look at a king,” said alice. “it’s a mineral, i think,” said alice. “pray don’t trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,” said alice. “a cheap sort of present!” thought alice. “no,” said alice. “i never saw one, or heard of one,” said alice. “what fun!” said the gryphon, half to itself, half to alice. “what is the fun?” said alice. “yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn’t believe it—”  “i never said i didn’t!” interrupted alice. “certainly not!” said alice indignantly. “what was that?” inquired alice. “what was that like?” said alice. “what a curious plan!” exclaimed alice. “no, indeed,” said alice. “back to land again, and that’s all the first figure,” said the mock turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures, who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at alice. “it must be a very pretty dance,” said alice timidly. “very much indeed,” said alice. “i never thought about it,” said alice. “don’t you mean ‘purpose’?” said alice. He looked at the gryphon as if he thought it had some kind of authority over alice. “a nice muddle their slates’ll be in before the trial’s over!” thought alice. “i’m glad i’ve seen that done,” thought alice. “come, that finished the guinea-pigs!” thought alice. Imagine her surprise, when the white rabbit read out, at the top of his shrill little voice, the name “alice!” “what do you know about this business?” the king said to alice. “nothing,” said alice. “nothing whatever,” said alice. Everybody looked at alice. “i’m not a mile high,” said alice. “then it ought to be number one,” said alice. “it proves nothing of the sort!” said alice. “but, it goes on ‘they all returned from him to you,’” said alice. “stuff and nonsense!” said alice loudly. “i won’t!” said alice. She knows such a very little! “hold your tongue, ma!” said the young crab, a little snappishly. I wouldn’t be in bill’s place for a good deal: this fireplace is narrow, to be sure; but i think i can kick a little!” “the game’s going on rather better now,” she said, by way of keeping up the conversation a little. “with extras?” asked the mock turtle a little anxiously. The antipathies, i think—” (she was rather glad there was no one listening, this time, as it didn’t sound at all the right word) “—but i shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. There are no mice in the air, i’m afraid, but you might catch a bat, and that’s very like a mouse, you know. I’ll try if i know all the things i used to know. This is the driest thing i know. “but you’re so easily offended, you know!” Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (“that’s bill,” thought alice,) “well, i hardly know— “oh, i’m not particular as to size,” alice hastily replied; “only one doesn’t like changing so often, you know.” “i have tasted eggs, certainly,” said alice, who was a very truthful child; “but little girls eat eggs quite as much as serpents do, you know.” For instance, if you were inside, you might knock, and i could let you out, you know.”
