I shall satiate my ardent curiosity with the sight of a part of the world never before visited, and may tread a land never before imprinted by the foot of man. What can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man? I paused; at length he spoke, in broken accents: “unhappy man! You have been tutored and refined by books and retirement from the world, and you are therefore somewhat fastidious; but this only renders you the more fit to appreciate the extraordinary merits of this wonderful man. A new light seemed to dawn upon my mind, and bounding with joy, i communicated my discovery to my father. This expectation will now be the consolation of your father. I doubted at first whether i should attempt the creation of a being like myself, or one of simpler organization; but my imagination was too much exalted by my first success to permit me to doubt of my ability to give life to an animal as complex and wonderful as man. Ay, ay,” continued he, observing my face expressive of suffering, “m. frankenstein is modest; an excellent quality in a young man. It was an historical subject, painted at my father’s desire, and represented caroline beaufort in an agony of despair, kneeling by the coffin of her dead father. He bounded over the crevices in the ice, among which i had walked with caution; his stature, also, as he approached, seemed to exceed that of man. Oh, praise the eternal justice of man! “here, then, i retreated and lay down happy to have found a shelter, however miserable, from the inclemency of the season, and still more from the barbarity of man. Agatha listened with respect, her eyes sometimes filled with tears, which she endeavoured to wipe away unperceived; but i generally found that her countenance and tone were more cheerful after having listened to the exhortations of her father. But if his countenance was more sorrowful, his voice was more cheerful than that of his sister, especially when he addressed the old man. I was, besides, endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome; i was not even of the same nature as man. ‘who is there?’ said the old man. “‘excellent man! Do not you desert me in the hour of trial!’  “‘great god!’ exclaimed the old man. “i generally rested during the day and travelled only when i was secured by night from the view of man. These feelings dictated my answer to my father. He felt as if he had been transported to fairy-land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man. I saw vessels near the shore and found myself suddenly transported back to the neighbourhood of civilised man. I found several letters, and, among others, one which i discovered from its commencement to be from your father. Nothing, at this moment, could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father. I abhorred the face of man. If he were vanquished, i should be a free man. Such were the lessons of my father. A fiend had snatched from me every hope of future happiness; no creature had ever been so miserable as i was; so frightful an event is single in the history of man. I see him now, excellent and venerable old man! My imagination was vivid, yet my powers of analysis and application were intense; by the union of these qualities i conceived the idea and executed the creation of a man. Even the sailors feel the power of his eloquence; when he speaks, they no longer despair; he rouses their energies, and while they hear his voice they believe these vast mountains of ice are mole-hills which will vanish before the resolutions of man. These volumes were my study day and night, and my familiarity with them increased that regret which i had felt, as a child, on learning that my father’s dying injunction had forbidden my uncle to allow me to embark in a seafaring life. I heard of him first in rather a romantic manner, from a lady who owes to him the happiness of her life. “and yet you rescued me from a strange and perilous situation; you have benevolently restored me to life.” But i—i have lost everything and cannot begin life anew.” She procured plain work; she plaited straw and by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life. It appeared to me sacrilege so soon to leave the repose, akin to death, of the house of mourning and to rush into the thick of life. One of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was the structure of the human frame, and, indeed, any animal endued with life. I took refuge in the courtyard belonging to the house which i inhabited, where i remained during the rest of the night, walking up and down in the greatest agitation, listening attentively, catching and fearing each sound as if it were to announce the approach of the demoniacal corpse to which i had so miserably given life. But i was in reality very ill, and surely nothing but the unbounded and unremitting attentions of my friend could have restored me to life. A flash of lightning illuminated the object, and discovered its shape plainly to me; its gigantic stature, and the deformity of its aspect more hideous than belongs to humanity, instantly informed me that it was the wretch, the filthy dæmon, to whom i had given life. The sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed always the effect of solemnising my mind and causing me to forget the passing cares of life. My heart, which was before sorrowful, now swelled with something like joy; i exclaimed, “wandering spirits, if indeed ye wander, and do not rest in your narrow beds, allow me this faint happiness, or take me, as your companion, away from the joys of life.” How dare you sport thus with life? ‘hateful day when i received life!’ “the winter advanced, and an entire revolution of the seasons had taken place since i awoke into life. I learned from your papers that you were my father, my creator; and to whom could i apply with more fitness than to him who had given me life? The prospect of such an occupation made every other circumstance of existence pass before me like a dream, and that thought only had to me the reality of life. They instantly carried it to the cottage of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured, but in vain, to restore it to life. I gasped for breath, and throwing myself on the body, i exclaimed, “have my murderous machinations deprived you also, my dearest henry, of life?