Her first idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, “and in that case i can go back by railway,” she said to herself. The mouse looked at her rather inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little eyes, but it said nothing. Indeed, she had quite a long argument with the lory, who at last turned sulky, and would only say, “i am older than you, and must know better;” and this alice would not allow without knowing how old it was, and, as the lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no more to be said. “i don’t quite understand you,” she said, as politely as she could. “_you’d_ better not talk!” said five. When the procession came opposite to alice, they all stopped and looked at her, and the queen said severely “who is this?” I said ‘what for?’” She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a curious appearance in the air: it puzzled her very much at first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to be a grin, and she said to herself The moment alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her, though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed to make out exactly what they said. “i make you a present of everything i’ve said as yet.” So they went up to the mock turtle, who looked at them with large eyes full of tears, but said nothing. Alice was very nearly getting up and saying, “thank you, sir, for your interesting story,” but she could not help thinking there _must_ be more to come, so she sat still and said nothing. “fourteenth of march, i _think_ it was,” he said. Alice watched the white rabbit as he fumbled over the list, feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like, “—for they haven’t got much evidence _yet_,” she said to herself. “the trial cannot proceed,” said the king in a very grave voice, “until all the jurymen are back in their proper places—_all_,” he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at alice as he said so. “do i look like it?” he said. After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor alice! Poor alice! “what else have you got in your pocket?” he went on, turning to alice. “only a thimble,” said alice sadly. “you are not attending!” said the mouse to alice severely. “i didn’t mean it!” pleaded poor alice. And she began fancying the sort of thing that would happen: “‘miss alice! “what a number of cucumber-frames there must be!” thought alice. So bill’s got to come down the chimney, has he?” said alice to herself. The other side of _what?_” thought alice to herself. “what _can_ all that green stuff be?” said alice. “i’m _not_ a serpent!” said alice indignantly. “i haven’t the least idea what you’re talking about,” said alice. “but i’m _not_ a serpent, i tell you!” said alice. “but what am _i_ to do?” said alice. Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all directions, “just like a star-fish,” thought alice. “if you’re going to turn into a pig, my dear,” said alice, seriously, “i’ll have nothing more to do with you. The cat only grinned when it saw alice. “that depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the cat.  “i don’t much care where—” said alice. “how do you know i’m mad?” said alice. “i suppose so,” said alice. “_i_ call it purring, not growling,” said alice. “then it wasn’t very civil of you to offer it,” said alice angrily. “come, we shall have some fun now!” thought alice. “exactly so,” said alice. “have you guessed the riddle yet?” the hatter said, turning to alice again. “i don’t know what you mean,” said alice. “i’ve heard something like it,” said alice. “how dreadfully savage!” exclaimed alice. “then you keep moving round, i suppose?” said alice. “yes, please do!” pleaded alice. “take some more tea,” the march hare said to alice, very earnestly. “nobody asked _your_ opinion,” said alice. “they were learning to draw,” the dormouse went on, yawning and rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; “and they drew all manner of things—everything that begins with an m—”  “why with an m?” said alice.