“the vicomte is a wonderful raconteur,” said she to another. “i am so enchanted by the brilliancy of the wit and culture of the society, more especially of the feminine society, in which i have had the honor of being received, that i have not yet had time to think of the climate,” said he. “what would it cost you to say a word to the emperor, and then he would be transferred to the guards at once?” said she. “listen to me, prince,” said she. “bâton de gueules, engrêlé de gueules d’azur—maison condé,” said he. She said....” “she said.... “if no one fought except on his own conviction, there would be no wars,” he said. “ah, that is just what i tell him!” said she. I don’t understand,” said he. “lise!” was all prince andrew said. “so do come and dine with us!” he said. “kiss the doll,” said she. “how often have i asked you not to take my things?” she said. “would not such a meeting be too trying for him, dear anna mikháylovna?” said he. “that’s fine,” said he. “cossack!” she said threateningly. “what shall we sing?” she said. “that would be a fine thing!” said she. Through that door was heard a noise of things being moved about, and at last anna mikháylovna, still with the same expression, pale but resolute in the discharge of duty, ran out and touching pierre lightly on the arm said: “pierre!” she said. Then after a pause she said:  “he is no more....” It uplifts the soul to see such men as the old count and his worthy son,” said she. Someday i will tell you about our parting and all that was said then. Let us go across to mary’s room,” he said. “is it certain?” she said. “you must walk, walk as much as possible, as much as possible,” he said. Trying for me!...” said she. “i will do it all, father,” he said. “another ismail comrade,” said he. “he’s coming!” said he. “please be quick,” he said. “if we get to vienna i’ll get rid of it there but in these wretched little towns there’s nowhere to spend it,” said he. “would not your excellency like a little refreshment?” he said. “encouraging us to get along quicker,” said another uneasily. “hey, cossack, my horse!” he said. You should dismount,” he said. “well, now tell me about your exploits,” said he. We heard reports that prince auersperg was defending vienna?” he said. “tell me about that!” he said. Confess that this is delightful,” said he. It will be cut off,” said he. “stop this jesting,” he said. “that is why i beg to be sent to that detachment,” he said. “well, stand us some of your herb vodka, túshin,” it said. I am not considering my own pleasure and i won’t allow it to be said!” “come along, our matvévna!” he said to himself. I’ve hurt my arm,” he said timidly. They won’t make another push now,” said another. “must one die like a dog?” said he.