“that is exactly what i should have supposed of you,” said elizabeth. “and so ended his affection,” said elizabeth impatiently. Bingley saw, or suspected enough to be jealous; and her great anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend jane received some assistance from her desire of getting rid of elizabeth. At that moment they were met from another walk by mrs. hurst and elizabeth herself. “nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said elizabeth. “mr. darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried elizabeth. “_that_ is a failing indeed!” cried elizabeth. The evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and almost all its sense by the absence of jane and elizabeth. “as much as i ever wish to be,” cried elizabeth very warmly. “good heavens!” cried elizabeth; “but how could _that_ be? “how strange!” cried elizabeth. “insolent girl!” said elizabeth to herself. Mr. collins then returned to elizabeth. “an unhappy alternative is before you, elizabeth. Charlotte’s reply was spared by the entrance of jane and elizabeth. As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, i shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin elizabeth.” “an excellent consolation in its way,” said elizabeth, “but it will not do for _us_. “and is this all?” cried elizabeth. “i should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_ of the match,” cried elizabeth. “oh, no!” said elizabeth. “in what an amiable light does this place him!” thought elizabeth. “but you—how are you?” cried elizabeth. Jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to elizabeth. “you must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied elizabeth. “and have you answered the letter?” cried elizabeth. “and they are really to be married!” cried elizabeth, as soon as they were by themselves. “perhaps preparing for his marriage with miss de bourgh,” said elizabeth. “this is the consequence, you see, madam, of marrying a daughter,” said elizabeth. Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look, which showed her better satisfied with their visitors, than elizabeth. “yes, very indifferent indeed,” said elizabeth, laughingly. “it has been a very agreeable day,” said miss bennet to elizabeth. “i suspected as much,” replied elizabeth. “these are heavy misfortunes,” replied elizabeth. “we will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening,” said elizabeth. Such i was, from eight to eight and twenty; and such i might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest elizabeth! “i must ask whether you were surprised?” said elizabeth. “i am more likely to want more time than courage, elizabeth. Miss bingley was very deeply mortified by darcy’s marriage; but as she thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at pemberley, she dropt all her resentment; was fonder than ever of georgiana, almost as attentive to darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility to elizabeth. She was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of mr. darcy. “what a charming amusement for young people this is, mr. darcy! “your friend performs delightfully,” he continued after a pause, on seeing bingley join the group; “and i doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, mr. darcy.” “but it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world,” replied darcy. What a delightful library you have at pemberley, mr. darcy!” “you quite mistook mr. darcy. “i have been used to consider poetry as the _food_ of love,” said darcy. But do you always write such charming long letters to her, mr. darcy?” Do not you, darcy?” Allowing for the common demands of the game, mr. wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to elizabeth, and she was very willing to hear him, though what she chiefly wished to hear she could not hope to be told—the history of his acquaintance with mr. darcy. Are you much acquainted with mr. darcy?” “oh! no—it is not for _me_ to be driven away by mr. darcy.