‘david had bought an annuity for himself with his money, i know,’ said she, by and by. It was really calculated to break his spirit, he said afterwards. ‘but what is your opinion, peggotty?’ said i. Peggotty continuing to stand motionless in the middle of the room, and my mother resuming her singing, i fell asleep, though i was not so sound asleep but that i could hear voices, without hearing what they said. ‘that’s not it?’ said i. I said. ‘like two young mavishes,’ mr. peggotty said. ‘dirt,’ i said. When my mother came down to breakfast and was going to make the tea, miss murdstone gave her a kind of peck on the cheek, which was her nearest approach to a kiss, and said:  ‘now, No one ever said i was before. To this my mother returned, ‘certainly, my dear jane,’ and said no more. ‘can’t you, indeed, david?’ he said. ‘oh, davy!’ she said. ‘there,’ i said. ‘near london,’ i said. ‘with peggotty?’  ‘ah!’ he said. I was thinking this, and wondering what would ultimately become of my box, which mr. barkis had put down on the yard-pavement by the pole (he having driven up the yard to turn his cart), and also what would ultimately become of me, when a lady looked out of a bow-window where some fowls and joints of meat were hanging up, and said: ‘yes, ma’am,’ i said. ‘copperfield, ma’am,’ i said. ‘my eye!’ he said. ‘chops,’ i said. ‘that’s just his age,’ he said. ‘you’re the new boy?’ he said. ‘yes, sir,’ i said. ‘i’m one of the masters at salem house,’ he said. ‘it’s down by blackheath,’ he said. ‘it’s a good step,’ he said. ‘you had better give it to me to take care of,’ he said. Steerforth said. Said i, doubtfully. ‘as if this poor little innocent in its cradle had ever done any harm to you or anybody else, you jealous thing!’ said she. ‘one thing more,’ he said. ‘he is in his mother’s arms,’ said he. She never told her husband what she had told me--she was afraid of saying it to anybody else--till one night, a little more than a week before it happened, when she said to him: ‘why, you knew who it was, em’ly,’ said i. Well said! That’s just his character,’ said i. ‘nothing seems to cost him any trouble,’ said i. ‘no, sir, david copperfield,’ i said. Mr. dolloby--dolloby was the name over the shop door, at least--took the waistcoat, stood his pipe on its head, against the door-post, went into the shop, followed by me, snuffed the two candles with his fingers, spread the waistcoat on the counter, and looked at it there, held it up against the light, and looked at it there, and ultimately said: ‘i am going to dover,’ i said. ‘i come from london,’ i said. ‘are you a prig?’  ‘n-no,’ i said. ‘trotwood,’ said he. ‘yes,’ i said. ‘why then, i tell you what,’ said he. ‘my mistress?’ she said. He said. ‘very happy indeed, thank you, aunt,’ i said. My aunt embracing the proposal, we were all three going out together, when he stopped and said: