“i have greatly wronged thee,” murmured hester. “i will keep thy secret, as i have his,” said hester. How is it, hester? In all her walks about the town, pearl, too, was there; first as the babe in arms, and afterwards as the little girl, small companion of her mother, holding a forefinger with her whole grasp, and tripping along at the rate of three or four footsteps to one of hester’s. “art thou my child, in very truth?” asked hester. “is the worshipful governor bellingham within?” inquired hester. “pearl! little pearl!” cried he after a moment’s pause; then, suppressing his voice,—“hester! I hate him, hester!” So it seemed to be with hester. “it lies not in the pleasure of the magistrates to take off this badge,” calmly replied hester. “all this, and more,” said hester. “i must reveal the secret,” answered hester, firmly. “yes, i hate him!” repeated hester, more bitterly than before. “what shall i say?” thought hester to herself. “nor ever will, my child, i hope,” said hester. “a story, child!” said hester. “didst thou ever awake, and find thy mother gone?” asked hester. “hester! “the people reverence thee,” said hester. “you wrong yourself in this,” said hester, gently. Thou and i, hester, never did so!” “think for me, hester! “thou must dwell no longer with this man,” said hester, slowly and firmly. “then there is the broad pathway of the sea!” continued hester. “alone, hester!” “let her see nothing strange—no passion nor eagerness—in thy way of accosting her,” whispered hester. “thou strange child, why dost thou not come to me?” exclaimed hester. “bring it hither!” said hester. “that was not kind!” said hester. “not now, dear child,” answered hester. “he remembers thee a little babe, my child,” answered hester. “they wait to see the procession pass,” said hester. “now, what mortal imagination could conceive it!” whispered the old lady, confidentially, to hester. “fie, woman, fie!” cried the old lady, shaking her finger at hester. Her pearl!— Throughout all, however, there was a trait of passion, a certain depth of hue, which she never lost; and if, in any of her changes, she had grown fainter or paler, she would have ceased to be herself,—it would have been no longer pearl! Above all, the warfare of hester’s spirit, at that epoch, was perpetuated in pearl. “do not cry, dear little pearl! The governor, in advance of his visitors, ascended one or two steps, and, throwing open the leaves of the great hall-window, found himself close to little pearl. “i am mother’s child,” answered the scarlet vision, “and my name is pearl!” Pearl, that wild and flighty little elf, stole softly towards him, and taking his hand in the grasp of both her own, laid her cheek against it; a caress so tender, and withal so unobtrusive, that her mother, who was looking on, asked herself,—“is that my pearl?” “i must tarry at home, and keep watch over my little pearl. But he cannot catch little pearl!” It was immediately responded to by a light, airy, childish laugh, in which, with a thrill of the heart,—but he knew not whether of exquisite pain, or pleasure as acute,—he recognized the tones of little pearl. “it is i, and my little pearl.” “minister!” whispered little pearl. “wilt thou stand here with mother and me, to-morrow noontide?” inquired pearl. There is no good for little pearl! “pearl! Little pearl!