The expression of his face as he said these words was not at all pleasant, and i had my own reasons for thinking that the stranger was mistaken, even supposing he meant what he said. “black dog!” said he. “no, sir,” said i. They had never been worn, my mother said. “they might have hid the blessed thing,” said another. “to be sure, boy; quite right,” said he. “dog, sir,” said i. “captain smollett, sir, axing to speak with you,” said he. “hands off, if you like, john silver,” said the other. “i am sure he would,” said i. “ah,” said he, “so you would.” That’s what he said. “i’m with you, sir,” said he. “not without swamping the boat,” said he. “we’ll never get ashore at this rate,” said i. “the gun!” said he. “here come the gigs, sir,” said i. “you can calculate for yourself,” i said. “like enough,” said he. Apparently they were talking and laughing, though at that distance--upwards of a mile--i could, of course, hear no word of what was said. “come aboard, mr. hands,” i said ironically. He looked at me sourly enough but said nothing. “i’m not strong enough, and i don’t like the job; and there he lies, for me,” said i. I said. “why?” said he. “what i can do, that i’ll do,” i said. “will you taste, messmate?” he asked; and when i had refused: “well, i’ll take a dram myself, jim,” said he. “ah, well, he did, though,” said he. No good’ll come o’ that, i said.” “belay that talk, john silver,” he said. “slow, lad, slow,” he said. Well, maybe,” he said. “well, that’s so,” he said. “ah!” said the captain, and that was all he said. “drunk or raving,” said he. At first i had supposed “the dead man’s chest” to be that identical big box of his upstairs in the front room, and the thought had been mingled in my nightmares with that of the one-legged seafaring man. The captain, for his part, stood staring at the signboard like a bewildered man. “mother,” said i, “take the whole and let’s be going,” for i was sure the bolted door must have seemed suspicious and would bring the whole hornet’s nest about our ears, though how thankful i was that i had bolted it, none could tell who had never met that terrible blind man. “we don’t see it here nohow,” returned the man. “here, you below there, is it on bill?” cried the blind man again. There wasn’t one of you dared face bill, and i did it--a blind man! “that he did, you may be sure,” said i. “i knew that blind man too. “you may go below, my man. I see that when i set my eyes on you, and i’ll talk to you like a man.” Pew was that sort, and he died a beggar-man. “john,” cries the coxswain, “you’re a man!” A very remarkable man.” Wherever a man is, says i, a man can do for himself. Well, you just put your trust in ben gunn--ben gunn’s the man to do it. “if i durst,” said the captain, “i’d stop and pick off another man.”